<title=" presidenti candidate  ; and  vice presidenti candidate sen.  , d-va. hold a rly before embar on a jobs-focused bus tour across pennsylvania and ohio.">
<date:"2016-07-29">
<: good morning, philadelphia (inaudible). (applause) wow. man. wow. i -- i was tired after last night, but i'm awake now. (applause) listen, what a warm welcome. hello to philadelphia. you know, i'll tell you, we come from virginia and we think we have this hospitity thing down pat, but philadelphia rely showed off this week. (applause) so some thank yous. i want to thank my great friend and senate colleague bob casey. what a wonderful -- what a wonderful public servant. (applause) and we are so exci to have another great pennsylvanian about to join us in the uni states senate, katie mcginty. katie. (applause) you have heard earlier today ready from two of the people who are absolutely key to ma this convention work like a charm, and that's our congressman bob y and mayor jim kenney. thank you guys for l your great work. (applause) governor ed rendell. he and i share being mayors, governors and dnc chairs. we surely have e -- we get to go right by purgatory and right through the golden  because of what we've done. (laughter) ed rendell, great -- great public servant. (applause) we have -- in the pre-program, you've ready heard from councilwoman cherelle parker and reverend bonnie camarda and  hill and josh shapiro. so many great public servants broadly defined (ph) in this room. (applause) it has been an incredible week and i could not be prouder to be here in philadelphia and accept the request of a spectacular public servant,  , to accept my party's nomination to be the next president. (applause)>
<audience: . .>
<: i -- i shared -- i shared the other night at the convention how kind of weird i feel being here. i mean, i just grew up in such a nonpolitic household. my dad ran this union, organized iron workers (inaudible), and mom and dad are here somewhere in this room. they're 81-years-old and we're having a great e together. (applause) and i don't know if there's any irish-amans here, but they're standing with a buddy... (applause) they're standing with a buddy from county cork, (inaudible) fleming, who flew over to surprise me. so look, we're -- we're here as a strong family, l of us. we worked in my dad's business, my mom and my brothers and me, and pitched in. that's what family businesses do. i know a lot of you come from that. when family says you've got to help, you've got to help. and we like helping. i learned a lot from wor for my dad. i learned a lot from a jesuit high school i went to that taught... (applause) wow. jesuits aren't that big an applause line in every city, but i'm glad -- i'm glad to know in philadelphia... (applause) i'm glad to know in philadelphia... (applause) i bet there were a lot of pope francis catholics here before there was a pope francis. (applause) but -- but those vues of -- of hard work and of faith were my guiding principles, and that's one of the reasons that i developed such an admiration and friendship for  , because those are the e vues that has driven her, her growing up in a sml business household or growing up inspired by a methodist youth pastor. those are her vues and -- and she's been living them, fighting for kids and families, putting them first for her entire career. her entire career. (applause) in -- in my own life, i took the lessons from my parents and i took the lessons from the jesuits that i worked with as a missionary in honduras and i basicly decided to do what virtuly l of you guys are doing, which is to measure what i do by how it helped somebody else. can you serve others? can you do good for others? it's not about title; it's not about money; it's not about prestige; it's not about popularity. it's not about anything other than serving other people. and that's the kind of candidate we have. (applause) so, we're starting today, this -- this bus tour. now, this is the part of the campaign i rely like. i mean, you know, the big -- the big events are fun. but i don't like wearing a tie that much. (laughter) so, i'd rather -- i'd rather just go out and pound the pavement. so, we're starting a three-day bus tour today. and this is the first rly. and then we're going to go... (applause) and it's not accident this is the first rly. and then we're going to go across pennsylvania and we're going to go across iowa. and secretary  is going to be laying out why she is going to be such a fantastic president -- a fantastic president. (applause) we're going to be drawing that contrast between  's plans for our country and  's empty promises and no plans for the country. you -- you -- you know -- you know her plans. i mean, i don't know, is there anybody at temple that likes the idea of debt-free college? i mean... (applause) she has pledged in the first 100 days of the administration to make a massive investment in new jobs, education, work training, rebuilding our nation's infrastructure, fighting the battles that she has fought e and e again. and it's not just about what she says; it's that she has delivered. i know you watched last night as she tked about -- and... (applause) and -- and as  tked about... (applause) her battling to get heth insurance for eight million aman kids when she was first lady. (applause) now, don't you want -- don't you want a president who knows how to battle and get things done for regular people, who might not be able to get those things done without a great champion? (applause) of course you do. of course you do. so, that is what we'll do over the next couple of days. and we'll tk about creating jobs, we'll tk about raising wages, we'll tk about the leadership that ama needs to play in the world -- a leadership that has got to be based on liances, and building bridges, and -- and just using the relationships we have to defeat forces of terrorism and forces of prejudice, forces of anti-semitism. we can do that when we work together around the world. (applause) and finly -- and finly, and in some ways this is the thing that matters the most to me as a former civil rights lawyers, the -- we want to make sure that we've got a community of respect. (applause) right? a -- or, as the civil rights leaders used to say, a beloved community, where -- where people are not demeaned because of who they are, not -- not dissed because of they're somebody with a disability, or they're lgbt, or they come from another country, or their skin color is different, or they speak a different language. but embraced. hey, don't you guys in pennsylvania cl yourself a common weth, just like we in virginia do? you know, just like we in virginia do? (applause) that's different than saying you're a state. anybody who says, we're a common weth, what you're saying is, the weth we hold, we hold in common. it has got to be about everybody. it has got to be about bringing everybody together, and those are  's vues. (applause) now, the last thing i'll say before we bring up our champion and the main event, is... (applause) i've noticed there's a few differences between   and  . now, let's see. what's today -- what's today? friday? i think i can -- well, i'm going to try to boil it down. you've seen  basicly pitch in a very dark and negative in cleveland a very different view of this country. weren't you proud of how opistic, upbeat, positive, pro-ama the convention was here and the message (ph) was here? (applause) absolutely. absolutely. (applause) the  convention was like a twis and negative tour. it wasn't a tour of this country, it was a journey through  's mind and that is very frightening place. that is a very frightening place. (applause) when it comes to the economy, we're at a college -- we're at a college can i ask you a question? in  we've got a "you're hired" president. would you rather have that or a "you're fired" president? (applause) absolutely. that's not that hard, that's not that hard. in , you've got a bridge builder. would you rather have that or have a trash tker? a bridge builder, right? a bridge builder. (applause) and in  you've got that character from before she was ever in office to put kids and families first. this is rely important, this is rely important if you want to know about trustworthiness and character. somebody in public life, look to see... (applause) l right, he got to the punch line. he got to the punch line. he got to the punch line. (applause) i like you, i like you. (applause) l right. (applause) l right. now look. (applause) if you want to know how you can view somebody in public life, look to see if they had a passion before they got in office and whether they have continued that passion consistently throughout their entire e and you know that  , in good es and tough es, in victory and defeat, through hell or high water, in office or out of office, since she was a teenager has been putting kids and families first. and you so know that   has had a passion too and that passion is  .  . so it's kids first or me first. but look i am so glad to be on this ticket, it's a history ma ticket. anything i can do to help us succeed and anything i can do that will help this administration, be a fantastic one from first day to last, is going to be my humble honor to do. so please a great philadelphia, pennsylvania aman welcome to our next president,  . (applause)>
<:> hello. thank you. whoa, thank you l so much, thank you. <applause> thank you very, very much. i have to begin by than our host, the people of philadelphia. <applause> you know a little something about history and about ma history and i am so grateful to everyone in this city who hold such a great convention together who were so gracious, welcoming and hospitable and i am thrilled that so many amans from everywhere got a chance to see philadelphia. to see what's in this great city. <applause> people kept coming back from going for wks, going to museums, going to other sites, telling me how much they were impressed and so i want to thank your mayor, thank you mayor kenney. <applause> i want to thank your congressman who tried to come home to philadelphia every day and i know why because he loves this city, bob y <ph>. <applause> i am ways happy to be here with someone who's been a friend for  and me over so many years, an extraordinary public servant and advocate, former governor and mayor ed rendell. <applause> now i, like , i had the great pleasure of serving in the senate with senator bob casey and i apprecia his tenacity, the attention to detail, the work he did for you every single day. and so i want to thank bob and i want so to recognize who i  will be his partner in the senate come november, katie mcginty. <applause> and i  the next attorney gener for the commonweth of pennsylvania, josh shapiro. <applause> this has been such an vigorating, exciting week. as i said last night we heard from the man from ,  . <applause> and we heard from the man of ,  . <applause> and i was so exci to introduce to ama our partners, it -- its going to be fun to travel with, both  and ann because they -- they are going to demonstrate to the country what the people of virginia ready know. there's no better people to have in your corner than   and ann holten. <applause> now, i -- i don't know about you but i -- i stayed up rely late last night. it was just hard to go to sleep. we -- oh thank you thank you. it -- it was so exciting and but i -- i have to tell you it was so kind of overwhelming. i -- i take deeply, and with great humility the responsibility that this great campaign imposes on us. there is no doubt in my mind that every election in our democracy is important in it's own way, but i cant think of an election that is more important certainly in my lifee. and its not so much that i am on the ticket. it is because of the stark choice that is posed to ama in this election. so when i did -- when i did wake up this morning -- thank you. <applause> when i -- when i -- when i did -- did start moving and  and i star drin our coffee or as that it be administered through an iv -- <laughter> -- we suddenly looked at each other and we reized, as of tomorrow we have 100 days to make our case to ama. <applause> so what better place to kick off this campaign than right here in philadelphia where it l star 240 years ago. i -- i believe with l my heart that our founders came together to create one nation because they understood what we understand. we are stronger together. <applause> and -- and as we poin out during our four great days of our convention you heard something very different from the s didn't you? we -- we might as well have been t about two different countries or as someone said to me "two different planets."   pain a picture, a negative, dark, divisive picture of a country in decline. he insis that ama is weak and he told us l after laying out this very dark picture that i one can fix it. now as i -- as i watched and heard that it set off arm bells because just think about what happened here 240 years ago. think about our founders coming together, a declaration of independence, writing a constitution. they set up our form of government, the longest-lasting democracy in the history of the world. <applause> and you know, they did it. they did it -- they did it because they knew they didn't want one person, one man to have l the power, like a . and think about  washington, our first president. after he served, he stepped down voluntarily. people around him couldn't believe it. but he said, no, this is the example we should set. a democracy requires something from l of us, not just people we elect, but every single one of us, and washington set that example. and i don't know any founder, no matter how -- how strong they were, how smart they were, who believed that only they could solve our problems. so...
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> and i'll tell you something else.
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> i'll tell -- i'll tell you something else. they so expec a kind of raucous debate in ama. but at the end of the debate, we have to come together and get things done, don't we? <applause> so, as  said, we are going to get on a bus as soon as we leave here and we're going to drive through pennsylvania and into ohio. it's kind of nostgic for me. my dad was born in scranton. i spent every summer of my life up in northeast pennsylvania. my father, my brother went to penn state, so i know... <applause> i -- i know how beautiful this commonweth is and how wonderful the people are. but we've got work to do. i'm not satisfied with the status quo. i'm not telling you that everything is just peachy keen. i'm telling you we've made progress, but we have work to do if we're going to make sure everybody is included. <applause> and -- and you know, i think that we've got to have more good jobs. we've got to raise wages. we've got to tackle inequity. we've got to make this economy work for everyone, not just those at the top. <applause> and -- and if you listened rely closely to the  convention, you know that   tked for 75 minutes and did not offer one solution. in fact, his -- his speech, his whole convention seemed more about insulting me instead of helping the aman people. <applause> so here's what i've said i will do, and we're going to get to work on the very first day. within the first 100 days of our administration, we're going to break through the gridlock in washington and make the biggest investment in new good-paying jobs since world war ii. <applause> we're going to do it in infrastructure, technology, clean energy, advanced manufacturing. <applause> and i'm so going to pay speci attention to those parts of our country that have been left out and left behind, from our inner cities to our sml towns, from indian country to co country, from communities ravaged by addiction and places hlowed out by plant closures. anybody willing to work in ama should be able to find a job, to get ahead and stay ahead. that's my go. <applause> so on our bus tour, we're going to be visiting a few places where people are ma things. i find it highly amusing that   tks about make ama great again. he doesn't make a thing in ama except bankruptcies. <applause> so there's a lot to be done my friends and i'm exci. i'm exci to have  and anne as part of this team. and i'm exci to have the 42nd president of the uni states as part of this team. <applause> the four of us are going to barnstorm the country because, as a very smart president who just so happens to be here today once said, there is nothing wrong with ama that can't be cured by what's right with ama. <applause> so now, we had a great convention, but we've got to go out and we've got to fight for our vision of the future. and i can't do it one; i need each and every one of you. here's what i'd ask you to do, please join us. go to .com or text join - j-o-i-n - to 47246 to be part of this campaign and we are hiring organizers here in pennsylvania and across the country. <applause> and between now and election day, we are going to register three million more people. <applause> and we're not just going to register them, we're going to get them to commit to vote. <applause> we feel deeply the responsibility for continuing the work that star down the road from here 240 years ago. now, nobody who looks like me was thought to be possible to run for president back then. no one who looked like   was thought to be possible. <applause> but contrary to  , i believe every e we knock down a barrier in ama it liberates everyone in ama. <applause> i have to say, last night after - after the end of our convention, i knew - i knew that every parent in this country could look at their son or their daughter and now say the very e thing. you too could be president of the uni states. thank you l. god bless you. <title="  delivers remarks on economic policy (sd)">
<date:"2016-08-11">
<:> thank you. thank you so much. i have to tell you, i am thrilled to be here for a number of reasons. first, back in michigan - it's wonderful to be back in michigan. you can rely feel the energy and dynamism that is driving this state to come back. and in detroit, we've got new businesses opening. neighborhoods like midtown and eastern market are coming back. the auto industry just had its best year ever. <applause> over in ann arbor, high tech firms are thriving. 
<:> the next generation of engineers are getting trained up in houghton. and here at future amic, so well named, you are on the front lines of what i believe will be a true manufacturing renaissance in ama. <applause> i just was give a short but exciting tour by by mark jurcak and  couch, who were telling me about how this company was star as and for most of its early history, was an auto supply company. and then in 2000, as the market began to change and some of the auto companies began to reign, they were faced with a choice. we l face choices in life, don't we? and this company could have just said, hey, you know, our business is not going to be what it was; we've got to just fold up. let's, you know, just kind of quit. but that's not what happened here. and what happened here is what can happen across ama. you are in now what is largely an aerospace company. and... <applause> ... because of the workforce and the work ethic and the commitment of futuramic, you are seeing the future unfold. so i got to see what's happening here to help build the sls rocket that is going to go from macomb to mars. <applause> i saw the two hves of an f-35 nose cone waiting to be put together. i tked with some of the workers about the absolute perfection that is required to do this work. and what i believe with l my heart is that what's happening here can happen in so many places if we put our minds to it, if we support advanced manufacturing, if we are the kind of country that once again understands how important it is to build things. we are builders and we need to get back to building. <applause> so, we're ma progress. none of us can be satisfied until the economic revitization we're seeing in some parts of michigan reaches every community. but it is inspiring to see this combination of old- fashioned hard work and cutting edge innovation. and i know my opponent in this election was here in michigan about a week ago and it was like he was in a different place. when he visi detroit on monday, he tked only of failure, poverty and crime. he is missing so much about what makes michigan great. <applause> and the e is true when it comes to our country. he describes ama as an embarrassment. he said, and i quote, "we're becoming a third-world country." look around you, my friends. go visit with the workers building rockets. that doesn't happen in third-world countries. <applause> now, we have a lot of urgent and important work to do, and that's what i'm going to tk about today. because l the people that i have met throughout this campaign rely prove how wrong this negative, pessimistic view is. ama's best days are still ahead of us if we make up our minds to actuly go out and make that happen. <applause> just consider our assets. we have the most dynamic, productive workforce in the world, bar none. <applause> we have the most innovative businesses, the top colleges, universities, community colleges, training programs in the world, and the best science and technologies. we have enormous capacity for clean energy production. we are resilient, determined, hard-wor. there is nothing ama can't do if we do it together.
<:> and i -- i know this because this is how i was raised. and i don't think mr.  understands any of it. he hasn't offered any credible solutions for the very re economic chlenges we face. now those chlenges emerged long before the great recession and they have persis through our recovery. there is too much inequity, too little upward mobility, it is just too hard to get ahead today. but there are common sense things that your government could do that would give amans more opportunities to succeed. why don't we do it? because powerful speci interests and the tendency to put ideology ahead of politic progress has led to gridlock in congress. and how can you not be frustra, and even angry, when you see nothing getting done? and a lot of people feel no one is on their side and no one has their back and that is not how it's supposed to be in ama. if i am fortunate enough to be your president, i will have your back every single day that i serve. <applause> and my mission in the white house will be to make our economy work for everyone, not just those at the top. this is person for me, i am the product of the aman middle class. i was born in chicago, i was raised in a suburb, but my gfather worked at the scranton lake mill in scranton, pennsylvania for 50 years. and because he worked hard, my dad was able to go to college and eventuly start his own sml business. and then send me out into the world to follow my own dreams no matter how far those dreams have taken me, i have ways remembered i am the daughter of a sml business owner and the gdaughter of a factory worker and proud of both. <applause> so here's what i want, i want every aman family to be able to tell the e story. if you work hard, you do your part, you should be able to give your children l the opportunities they deserve. that is the basic bargain of ama. now whether we will be able to renew that bargain on even better terms for the 21st century, depends in large measure on the outcome of this election. so here are four questions that i  the aman people will ask of both candidates and that the answers should help make your choice in november cryst clear. first, which candidate has a re plan to create good paying jobs? second, who will restore fairness into our economy and ensure that those at the top pay their fair share of taxes? <applause> third, who will rely go to bat for wor families? and fourth, who can bring people together to deliver the results that will make a difference in your lives? now... <applause> now i  that after giving a fair hearing to both sides, you will join the millions of people across our country supporting this campaign, not just s, but a growing number of s and independents as well. now when it comes to creating jobs, i would argue it's not even close. even conservative experts say 's agenda will pull our economy back into recession. and according to an independent anysis by a former economic advisor to senator  mccain, if you add up l of 's ideas from cutting taxes for the wethy and corporations to starting a trade war with china, to deporting millions of hardwor immigrants, the result would be a loss of 3.1 million jobs. now, by contrast, the e anyst found that with our plan, the economy would create more than 10 million new jobs.<applause>
<:> so let me tell you how we would do that. i believe every aman willing to work hard should be able to find a job that provides dignity, pride and decent pay that can support a family. so starting on day one, we will work with both parties to pass the biggest investment in new, good paying jobs since world war ii. <applause> we will put amans to work, building and modernizing our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our railways, our ports, our airports. <applause> we are way overdue for this my friends. we are living off the investments that were made by our parents and gparents generations. we will so help cities like detroit and flint connect underserved neighborhoods to opportunity expanding affordable housing, and we will repair schools and failing water systems as well. <applause> you know, i happen to think we should be ambitious. while we're at it, let's connect every household in ama to broadband by the year 2020. <applause> it's astonishing to me, how many places in ama, not way, way far away from cities, but in cities, and near cities that don't have access to broadband. and that disadvantages kids who are asked to do homework using the internet five million of them live in homes without access to the internet. so you tk about an achievement gap. it starts right there. and let's build a cleaner, more resilient power grid with enough renewable energy to power every home in our country as well. <applause> some country is going to be the clean energy super power of the 21st century and create millions of jobs and businesses. it's probably going to be either, china, germany or ama. i want it to be us. we invent the technology, we should make it and use it and export it, which will help to grow our economy. and here's something that you don't ways hear enough of from s, a big part of our plan will be unleashing the power of the private sector to create more jobs at higher pay. and that means for us, creating an infrastructure bank to get private funds off the sidelines and compliment our private investments. twenty-five ion dollars in government seed funding could a lot more than $250 ion and rely get our country moving on our infrastructure plans. and we're going to invest $10 ion in what we're cling make it in ama partnerships to support aman manufacturing and recommit to scientific research that can create entire new industries. <applause>
<:> when mark and  were giving me the tour and i was t to some of the workers ong the way, and as them where some of the precision machinery came from that is being used here at futuramic. it, what i hear l over the country, germany, japan, ity, i want to bring that precision manufacturing back to the uni states. there is no reason we can't begin to make those machines ourselves and supply the rest of the world, instead of buying from somewhere else. let's so expand incentives, like the new market tax credits that can bring businesses, government and communities together to create good jobs in places that have been left out and left behind. from neglec neighborhoods in detroit and flint to logging country, co country, native aman communities, from rur areas ravaged by addiction and lost jobs, to industri regions hollowed out when factories closed. 
<:> as president, i will so make a major push to empower sml businesses and entrepreneurs, with -- <applause> with new nation initiatives to cut red tape at every level and expand access to credit especily through community banks and credit unions. i will propose a new plan to dramaticly simplify tax filing for sml businesses. <applause> right now the smlest businesses, the kind that my dad had -- it was a rely sml business -- spent 20 es more per employee to prepare their taxes compared to larger companies. it should be as easy as printing out a bank statement, lets free entrepreneurs to do what they do best, initiative, grow and hire. as mark said, this company star because of a drive down a road and thin about it, t about it, then seeing one of the old oldsmobile futuramics and deciding -- hey, not only do i have an idea i've got a name. in ama if you can dream it you should be able to build it and we're going to get back to doing that. <applause> now   has a different view, he's made a career out of stiffing sml businesses from atlantic city to las vegas. there are companies that were left hanging because he refused to pay their s. a lot of those companies scraped together what they could to pay their employees, and many of them put their businesses at risk and someone of them ended up ta bankruptcy. it wasn't because  couldn't pay them it was because he wouldn't pay them and that's why i take it personly. my dad ran a printing plant, he had two rely long tables, he prin fabric for draperies, he would lay out the fabric and then he would take a silk screen and he would go down the table, he'd put the silk screen down and he'd pour the paint in, he'd take the squeegee, he'd go across the screen, he'd lift it up, he'd go down -- go down, l the way to the end, and then he would start on the other table, he worked hard. and then when he finished he would load l that fabric up, put it in his car and take it to the business that had ordered it, maybe a restaurant or a hotel, or some office. he expec to be paid when he showed up, he did the work, he paid for the supplies and the labor that he often hired to help him on big jobs, he expec to be paid. i can't imagine what would have happened to my father and his business if he had got a contract from , and showing up and subing his  had been told we're not going to pay and if you don't like it sue us, my father never could have sued a big organization like that. i just don't understand it, i've met l kinds of workers, painters, plumbers, i've met sml businesses that provided pianos, instled glass or marble, l of whom were denied payment and after going back e and again being told well maybe we'll pay you 30 cents on the dollar or 50 cents on the dollar. that's not how we do business in ama. so we've got to create more good jobs that are going to help more people. for example, our modern service economy is empowering consumers with more choices than greater flexibility, but we do have to empower the workers in our service sector too. the people ta care of our children and our parents, they deserve a good wage and good efits, and a secure retirement. <applause> and it's cruci that every aman have access to the education and skills they need to get the jobs of the future, so we will fight to make college tuition free for the middle class and debt free for everyone.<applause>
<:> we will so liberate millions of people who ready have student debt by ma it easier to refinance and repay what you owe as a portion of your income so don't have to pay more than you can afford. <applause> it -- it is just not right that   can ignore his debts but students and families can't refinance their debt. <applause> and here's something else that i rely want to emphasize, i don't think anybody in ama is t about this enough and that is a four-year degree should not be the only path to a good job in ama. <applause> you should be able to learn a skill, practice a trade, make a good living doing it. so many amans have the tent and the will to succeed, whether they're kids right out of high school or older people displaced by automation and outsourcing. and for too long, big promises about the power of training and re-training haven't delivered like they should. it doesn't help anybody to be trained for a job that doesn't exist. so here's what we're gonna do. we will support high-quity union training programs, we will propose... <applause> we will propose new tax credits to encourage more companies to offer paid apprenticeships that lets you earn while you learn. <applause> we will do more, including a nation campaign to dignify skills training across the board. <applause> i -- i think we gotta reverse what has become a kind of you know, common placed view which is everybody needs to go to college. well, in fact, more than hf of the jobs that are going to be available in 2020 do not require a college four-year degree. so for welders and machinists and tool and dye <ph> makers and heth technicians and coders and so many others, let's get the word out. there are rely good jobs for people right now and there will be more in the future if you get the skills in high school, at community college, in an apprenticeship or other training programs. <applause> and i -- i wanna acknowledge the great role that the community college here in macomb county has played in wor with companies like this one, to make sure people do have the skills. now, i imagine some of you might be thin well, that l sounds good but what about trade? after l,  tks about it l the e. well, lets start with this. it is true that too often, past trade des have been sold to the aman people with rosy scenarios that did not pan out. those promises now bring hollow in many communities across michigan and our country that have seen factories close and jobs disappear. too many companies lobbied for trade des so they could sell products abroad. but then, they instead moved abroad and sold back into the uni states. it is so true that china and other countries have gamed the system for too long. enforcement, particularly during the  administration, has been too lax. investments at home that would make us more competitive have been completely blocked in congress and aman workers in communities have paid the price. but the answer is not to rant and rave or cut ourselves off from the world. that would end up killing even more jobs. the answer is to finly make trade work for us, not against us. so my message... <applause> my message to every worker in michigan and across ama is this. i will stop any trade de that kills jobs or holds down wages including the trans-pacific partnership. <applause> i oppose it now, i'll oppose it after the election and i'll oppose it as president. as a senator from new york, i fought to defend new york's manufacturers and steel makers from unfair chinese trading practices.
<:> and i opposed the only multi-later trade de that came before the senate while i was there because it didn't meet my high bar. and as secretary of state, i fought hard for aman businesses to get a fair shot around the world and to stop underhanded trading practices like currency manipulation and the theft of intellectu property. so as president i will stand up to china and anyone else who tries to take advantage of aman workers and companies. <applause> and i am going to ramp up enforcement by appointing for the first e, a cheap trade prosecutor. i will triple the number of enforcement officers. and when countries break the rules , we won't hesitate to impose targe tariffs. <applause> now, mr.  may tk of big game on trade but his approach when it comes to trade is based on fear, not strength. fear that we cannot compete with the rest of the world, even when rules are fair. fear that our country has no choice but to hide behind wls. if team usa was as fearful as ;  phelps and simone biles would be cowering in the locker room, afraid to come out and compete. instead, they are winning gold meds. ama isn't afraid to compete. right now, thousands of michigan companies are exporting ions of dollars of products around the world. we want them to sell even more, and create even more jobs here at home. but corporations should not abandon profitable operations in the uni states to move abroad just to give shareholders a quicker return, ceos a bigger bonus, and unions a weaker hand to play. now, before he tweets about how he is rely the one who will put ama first and trade, let's remember where  makes many of his own products, because it sure is not ama. <applause> he has made  ties in china and  suits in mexico, instead of here in michigan. he keeps saying, it's not possible to make these things in ama anymore, that's just wrong. so we crea a website: .com/makeithere. on it, we list 100 places across the uni states that are ready producing similar goods. one positive thing  could do to make ama great again is to actuly make great things in ama again. now let's look at the second question, which candidate will fight for fairness? and this is an urgent need, we need to grow the economy and make it fairer. the tide is not rising fast enough and certainly not lifting l boats. since the crash, too many of the gains have gone to the top one percent. the rules and incentives in our system reward corporations for putting short-term stock prices above long e investment in their worker's equipment and research. while corporate profits are at near record high, paychecks for most people have barely budged. incomes aren't growing fast enough to keep up with the cost of living for things like prescription drugs and child-care. i believe every employee from the ceo suite to the factory floor contributes to a business' success. so everyone should share in the rewards, especily those putting in long hours for little pay. so i'm proposing a new tax credit to encourage more companies to share profits with more. 
<:> and more broadly, we will fight for a more progressive or patriotic tax code that puts aman jobs first. right now, when a corporation outsources jobs and production, it could write off the cost. we must stop that and we must make them pay back any tax break they ever received them from any level of government in our country. <applause> and for those that move their headquarters overseas to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, they're going to have to pay a new exit tax. so if they want to go, they're going to have to pay to go. <applause> and wl street corporations and the super rich should finly pay their fair share of taxes. that's why i support the so-cled buffet rule. because multi-millionaires should not be able to pay a lower tax rate than their secretaries. <applause> we should so add a new tax on multi-millionaires. crack down on tax gaming by corporations and close the carried interest loop holes, something i've advoca for years. now, compare what  says. now there is a myth out there, that he will stick it to the rich and powerful because somehow he's rely on the side of the little guy. don't believe it. not when he pledges to rip up basic rules that hold corporations accountable. when he wants to scrap regulations that stop polluters from poisoning the air our children breathe and the water we drink. let insurance companies write their own rules again.  would roll back the tough rules that we have imposed on the financi industry. i'll do the opposite. i think we should strengthen those rules so wl street can never wreck main street again. <applause>  even wants to abolish the consumer financi protection bureau. a new agency, that has ready returned more than $11 ion to 25 million amans, who were taken advantage of by corporations. why would you get rid of that? and then there is 's tax plan. he would give trillions in tax cuts to big corporations, millionaires and wl street money managers. that would explode our nation debt and eventuly lead to massive cuts in priorities like education, hethcare, and environment protection. in his speech on monday, he cled for a new tax loop hole. let's tk it the  loop hole. because it would low him to pay less than hf the current tax rate on income from many of his companies. he'd pay a lower rate than millions of middle class families. one non partisan expert at the tax policy center described this plan as and i quote "a rely nice de, for  ". of course, it's hard to say how nice, because he refuses to do what every other presidenti candidate in decades has done and release his tax returns. <applause> but we do know that the 400 richest tax payers in ama would get an average tax cut of more than $15 million a year from the  loop hole. and then there's the estate tax, which  wants to eliminate l together. now if you believe that he's as wethy as he says, that one would save the  family $4 ion. it would do nothing for 99.8 percent of amans. so they'd get a $4 ion tax cut and 99.8 percent of amans would get nothing. just think of what we could do with those $4 ion. we could pay for more than 47,000 veterans to get a four year college degree. we could provide a years worth of hethcare to nearly three million kids. or we could fund a years worth of feder assistance to state and loc law enforcement.
<:> i think there are a lot of better ways to spend the money. on monday, i'm going to be in scranton, pennsylvania with vice president . and he has a saying, don't tell me what you vue, show me your budget and i will tell you what you vue. well -- <applause>   wants to give trillions in tax breaks to people like himself. i want to invest it in veterans, our kids, our police officers and so much more. and you can then, draw your own conclusion about vues. now, it's true that both of us have proposed to cut taxes for middle class families. he's ma a big promise. but his advisers have said -- his own advisers have said he may not stand by them. instead, the tax cuts he double-downs on in his speech in detroit on monday offered trillions to the richest amans and corporations. and one of the differences between   and me is i'm telling you what i will do. i'm laying out my plans and i will stand by them, and want you to hold me accountable for delivering results. <applause> you know, this l reminds me of that old saying, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. and that brings us to the third question. which candidate can you actuly count on to go to bat for workers and wor families? it is not enough to pay lip service to being on your side. we have to recognize how amans actuly live and work in the 21st century, and then offer re solutions that make your lives easier. we know that women are now the sole or primary breadwinner in a growing number of families. we know more amans are cobbling together part-e work or stri out on their own. so we have to make it easier to be good workers, good parents, and good caregivers, l at the e e. that's why i've set out a bold vision to make quity, affordable childcare available to l amans and limit the cost to 10 percent of family income. <applause> on monday,  offered his first re ideas on this topic, because previously he had dismissed concerns about childcare. he said it was, quote, "not an expensive thing, because you just need some blocks and some swings." now he says he wants to exclude childcare payments from taxation. his plan was panned from the left, the right, the center, because it transparently is designed for rich people like him. he would give wethy families 30 or 40 cents on the dollar for their nannies, and little or nothing for millions of hard-wor families trying to afford childcare so that they can get to work and keep the job. <applause> i think instead we should expand the child tax credit to provide re relief to tens of millions of wor families struggling with the cost of raising children -- the e families that his plan ignores. and that's just a start. because the more we do to help wor families, the more our entire economy will efit. for example, guaranteeing equ pay won't just increase paychecks for women, it will boost family budgets and get incomes rising across the board. <applause> and i don't understand why  is against that. paid family leave will not only make life easier for moms and dads, it will so keep skilled, ten amans in the workforce and grow our economy. that's why every other advanced country ready has it. again, he's against it. raising the feder minimum wage won't just put more money in the pockets of low-income families, it so means they will spend more at the businesses in their neighborhoods. <applause> this is -- this is something that even the origin automakers understood way back at the beginning of the 20th century, when they decided to pay the unbelievable sum of $5 a day to autoworkers. and when they were criticized by other businesses -- how can you pay that much? they had the best answer: we want people to be able to buy our cars. this is economics 101. we need to get incomes and wages rising and it will help the whole economy grow and be fairer. <applause> and protecting and expanding soci security doesn't just help older amans retire with dignity. it helps to ease burdens on families and communities. and i so believe the e thing about comprehensive immigration reform. we ready have millions of people wor in the economy and paying $12 ion a year to soci security even though they are undocumen. so by moving toward reform, we will unleash a lot of new income and growth. and we will level the playing field so that aman workers cannot be taken advantage of because undocumen workers can be exploi by employers, which is one of the reasons we have this disconnect. and finly, strengthening unions does not just serve members, it leads to better pay, and efits, and wor conditions for l employees. <applause> so i have so said, "i will defend and improve the affordable care act." for me, that includes giving amans in every state, the choice of a public option heth insurance plan that will help everyone afford coverage. it will strengthen competition and drive down costs. now these are l causes i have worked on for decades, and i believe they point to a fundament truth about the economy. it can seem like zero sum -- when you are competing for a job, promotion, or contract; if someone wins and someone loses. but that is not the full picture, if you step back, you can see we are l in this together. if we grow together, we can l rise together. and you know what i like to say, "we are l stronger together." the fourth question is key and it's this, who can bring people together to get any of this done? right? well , i believe i can because i think i can provide serious, steady leadership that can provide common ground to build on it based upon hard but respectful bargaining with the other side. leadership that rises above person attacks and name-cling, not revels in it. i just do not think insults and bullying is how we are to get things done. i do not think that, that is the appropriate approach for us. i know it's hard to imagine, but there was a e when s and s actuly worked together. i know that's true. i did it as first lady, senator, and secretary of state. it is how we crea the children's heth insurance program, which covers eight million kids it is how we rebuilt new york after 9/11, and how we passed a treaty to reduce the threat from russia's nuclear weapons. so i am convinced based on my experience that we can do this. one of the reasons that i asked senator   to be my running mate, is that he so has a record of wor across the aisle to get things done as a mayor, governor, and a senator. so we are going to make full use of the white house's power to convene. we are going to get everyone at the table, not just s and s, but businesses and labor unions, academics but most importantly amans like l you. i think there are a lot of great ideas out in ama. and i want you to have a say. and that means, we've got to get unaccountable money out of politics, overturn citizens uni, and expand voting rights, not restrict them. i intend, starting even before the election to bring together leaders from across the economy, from a lot of different places to tk about jobs and competitiveness. i  mark and  can join me because we need the best ideas that are out there ma a difference . we need to pull together. the bottom-line is this. i am running for president to build an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. <applause> and based on what we know from the  campaign, he wants amans to work for him and his friends at the expense of everyone else. he has offered no credible plans to address what wor families are up against today, nothing on student loans, or the cost of description drugs, nothing for farmers or struggling rur communities.
<:> nothing to build a new future with clean energy and advance agriculture. nothing for communities of color in our cities to overcome the barriers of systemic racism. nothing to create new opportunities for young l. it is just a more extreme version of the failed theory of "tle down" economics with his own addition of outlandish ian ideas that even s reject. and as we heard him say at his convention, he may believe that he one can fix our country, but clearly he doesn't know the people of michigan. he doesn't see the businesses and the labor unions, the loc governments, the clergy coming together every single day to make things better. so yeah, there is still a long road ahead, but michigan is on the rise and everyone is contributing. that's ama at its best. so i  you will stay active and engaged and wor together to create jobs and to strengthen your own communities. and i  you will work to get out the vote in november, because if we - if we are able to win then i want you l to work with me to build the kind of progress that ama deserves to see. we're going do this together. we are stronger together. let's go out and build the future. thank you l, god bless you. <title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event, g rapids, michigan">
<date:"2016-11-07">
<:> hello g vley. 
<crowd: . . .>
<:> thank you. thank you.
<crowd: . . .>
<:> it is great to be back in western michigan. thank you. <applause> are there any lakers here? <applause> oh, my gosh. i am so thrilled to be here. i want to thank the president of this great university, tom haas, the faculty, the staff, the students. i want to thank bon dillon, the chair of the michigan  party ... <applause> ... and i especily rely want to thank you for sending debbie staow to the uni states senate. <applause> i have so the great person experience and privilege of having worked with debbie, gotten to know her, become a friend of hers, and i am so exci at the possibility that i'll be able to work with her again. but i want you to know this - and i rely, rely  you'll tell folks, because there is no more dedica, effective member of the uni states senate than debbie staow. <applause> she fights for l of you every day, but she does it with that smile that never leaves her face. and she brings people together who are on opposite sides of issues because she just keeps t. and don't we need more of that in washington where people actuly tk and listen to each other. so it's wonderful to be with l of you and to be introduced by debbie. are you ready to vote tomorrow, michigan? <applause> are you ready to help get your friends to vote tomorrow? that is clearly the right answer because we have a rely important election tomorrow. <applause> the choice in this election could not be clearer. and i know that for many people, you've gone back and forth, you've thought about what to do, and i rely respect that. but let me say this. let me say this. this election is basicly between division and unity in our country. <applause> it's between strong and steady leadership or a loose cannon who could put everything at risk. it is between an economy that works for everyone or one that is even more stacked for those at the top. and i want each and every one of you to be thin through about l the issues that you care about. because though my name and my opponents name will be on the blot, those issues, and those vues, are on the blot as well. and as you think about what you care about and what you want your future to look like you have to recognize this is a consequenti election. i have been privileged to know a lot of our presidents over the past decades, and people who ran for president. i was privileged to know as a college student, gerd ford. <applause> in fact, i had an internship with the house  conference comee, which he headed, after my junior year in college. so when i say i've gotten to know a lot of our presidents, and people who've run for president, it goes back a ways. and here's what i want you to understand. i didn't agree with everything they did or said. even the s. we had differences and politics and policies and somees on principle, but i never doub, i never doub that they were fit to serve as our president and commander-in-chief. <applause> that's why this election is so different. and it's why so many s have spoken out to endorse me and support me, and who have taken very courageous stands against the nominee of their own party. <applause> because they believe that we must put country ahead of party when it comes to this election. <applause> i was at kent state, in ohio, last week and i was introduced by a gentleman by the name of bruce blair. and mr. blair had served in the air force, he was a young officer assigned to be what was cled a launch officer. that meant he served his e every day sitting in a bunker where the controls for launching nuclear weapons were housed. and his job - imagine the responsibility. a young air force officer in his twenties, waiting to hear whether or not an order is given for him to launch nuclear weapons. and bruce blair explained that there is no appe from a president's order to do that. the joint chiefs of our military forces can't say, "no, don't do it." there's no veto from congress or anyone else. and the e between the order being given and the actu launch is four minutes. so after watching this election mr. blair began contacting others who had served in this incredibly responsible position to share his concerns about what he was hearing and seeing. and sever dozen of them - i'd never met them before - sever dozen of them wrote a letter explaining why they could never support   to be our commander-in-chief. <applause> the awesome responsibility that is housed in one person is something i want you to think about between now and the e you vote. because i will pledge to you that i will exercise the greatest care and responsibility in l of the powers inves in the office of the presidency. <applause>
<crowd: . . .>
<:> i so want to pose to you a contrast in visions. did any of you see the debates? first of l, i did stand for four and a hf hours with   on the stage, proving conclusively i have the stamina to be president. <applause> but i have to say, in addition to that, there were so many things that he said that of course i somees was surprised by. but the theme that ran through much of his rhetoric was the presentation of a dark and divisive vision for ama. now i have to tell you, i know we've got problems. i've spent 18 months traveling around our country t to - by now - hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people, hearing what's on people's minds. we've got chlenges but ama's ways had chlenges. and since when do we become pessimistic and not able to think about what we can do to overcome those chlenges and solve those problems together? <applause> i often didn't recognize the country that   was describing. because from my perspective, loo back at our history, we have a tremendous opportunity ahead of us. and you can vote for a ful, inclusive, big-hear ama that will set the stage for an even better future. <applause> and i want to say especily to the students who are here - i rely believe that ama's best days are still ahead of us if we reach for them together. <applause> make no mistake. our core vues are being tes in this election. but my faith in our future has never been stronger. last night in manchester, new hampshire, i was introduced by mr. khizr khan. <applause> some of you know or remember that his son, captain khan, serving in the uni states army, was killed serving in iraq. and like at the  convention this summer, he spoke powerfully about what ama means to him. and how we have to defend our vues and our constitution that are the envy of the rest of the world. people look at us with yearning. they see that we are a beacon of freedom,  and opportunity for people, right here, at home. <applause> when i heard mr. khan speak at the convention, and i heard him again last night, i was so touched because what he said exhibi a love of our country. he said that when he star hearing   speak, and l of the things he said about so many people, not only muslims but african-amans and latinos and pows and women and so many people - when he heard it he couldn't help but think as he wked around his house - he has a room where his son's meds - he got the bronze star, he got the purple heart - the flag that was draped on his coffin - is respectfully presen in the box that he was given it in. and he thought to himself, "would there be any room for my son in  's ama?" think about that for a minute. because every single one of us has something to contribute. to this great country. we are ready great but we can be greater. and we will be greater ... <applause> i love our country and i believe in the aman people, and i know there is nothing we can't do when we make up our minds. throughout our history, generations of amans have risen together to meet the tests of their e. they defended democracy. they built the greatest middle class the world has ever known. they marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers' rights and union rights, for lgbt rights, rights for people with disabilities ... <applause> ... and now we've got to come together and we have to prove we can meet the chlenges of our e. we've got to get the economy wor for everybody, not just those at the top. <applause> if you believe, as i do, that ama thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote tomorrow. <applause> we are going to make the biggest investment in good paying jobs since world war ii. jobs in infrastructure. our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports, our water systems. <applause> these are jobs we need doing in aman and these are jobs that cannot be expor. they've got to be done right here in michigan and across our country. <applause> and we are going to invest in new jobs in advanced manufacturing. i am not one of these folks who think, "we just can't make it in ama anymore." and i'll tell you why. because if we have a plan and we actuly commit to fulfilling that plan, we can lead the world in precision machining, in 3-d printing. we're not competing for low-wage jobs, we're competing with germany for high manufacturing, high- skilled jobs. <applause> and we are going to have clean, renewable energy jobs as a way to fight climate change. as you heard, my opponent chose to make many of his products overseas. and as i poin out in the last debate, he buys cheap chinese steel and uminum instead of good aman steel, made by aman steel workers. <booing> he's gone l over this country, and he's gone l over michigan, t about how he's gonna rely get more jobs and he's going to bring back what used to be there. well i'll tell you what. look at his record, don't just listen to his rhetoric. <applause> because i have a different idea. we're going to invest in ama again. and for everybody who is frustra, and anxious, and maybe even angry because they feel left out, left behind, that ama's not wor the way it should - i understand that. i understand that. i represen upstate new york for eight years, and i saw first hand a lot of the loss of jobs and factories, pic up and moving out. but i so reized that anger is not a plan. you've got to come together and figure out what is it we're gonna do to bring new jobs back and create more opportunity for people. <applause> and i'll just tell you that i believe that we've got to defend the aman worker's right to organize and bargain for better wages and efits. <applause> we're gonna get incomes rising here in western michigan and across this state. and we're so gonna do more to help sml business. my dad was a sml businessman. he worked rely hard. he ran a printing plant that prin fabrics for draperies, and i would from e to e help him out. you take a silkscreen, you put it down on the long table, you pour the paint in, you do the squeegee, you pick it up - it wasn't automa, we were the automaters - and you'd go l the way down to one table, you'd go to the other table. so i know how hard people in sml business work. and i so know something else.   made a lot of money off the backs of sml business people and contractors by stiffing them and refusing to pay his s. and i have said, "i am sure glad my dad never got a contract from  , because we could not have afforded that." <applause> but it's not just enough to grow the economy. we have to make it fairer. and if you believe we need a fairer economy then you have to vote. i think the best antidote for whatever ails a person is a good job. i believe in hard work. that's how i was raised. but i so believe that if you work hard and you work full e you shouldn't still be in poverty at the end of the year. and i'm gonna raise the nation minimum wage. and one of the things i've heard l over ama, especily from young families, rely from l families but particularly young families, is how hard it is to do so many of the things that are expec - like where do you find affordable quity childcare? in lots of states, it's more expensive than college tuition. we're gonna get the cost of childcare down. we're going to have a paid family leave program so that when you have a sick relative or you're sick you won't lose your job. <applause> i saw the folks over there holding up the   sign and i rely appreciate that. thank you. thank you. i got to tell you -  and i were in pittsburgh last month, with a big crowd, and we couldn't get everybody in, like today, so  went out to say hello to people and he saw a woman holding a baby, probably about three years old. and he stopped to tk to her and she said, "i came here because i wan to tell you, and to tell  , what happened to me." she said that "i had my baby, it was a hard labor and delivery and i needed some e off. and i cled by boss and said the doctors want me to take some e off and so i won't be in for - i think she said two weeks - and they said, "ok. you're fired." that is leg in ama, still. and what that does is to say that - wait a minute, do we rely vue children? do we rely vue families? and we've got to have a system that is fair to employers and fair to employees because you got to be able to bance work and family in today's ama. <applause> and then finly, i think it is way past e to guarantee equ pay for women's work. <applause> and you know i gotta say - this ways gets a huge round of applause, as you can tell - but this is not just a woman's issue. it's a family issue. if you have a wife, a mother, a sister, a daughter, who's in the work force, you want her to be paid what she deserves to be paid to help you and your family. <applause> just about everything i've said so far my opponent disagrees with. and whenever i tk about affordable childcare, and paid family leave, and equ pay - he says i'm playing the woman's card and you know what i say, if that's the case? then de me in. <applause> and here's what else i want you to know. it's fair to ask, "how are you going to pay for that?" that's not only fair, that's necessary to ask. because i want to be a good steward of your tax dollars just as i expect you're a good steward of your family budget. i have proposed a very simple formula. i will not raise taxes on anyone ma less than $250,000 a year. <applause> and for sml businesses, we're gonna cut your taxes because i know a lot of sml businesses need that kind of tax relief. so instead, we're going where the money is, to the millionaires and the ionaires and the big corporations. <applause> and that is in stark contrast to what   has proposed. his whole economic plan is cut trillions of dollars in taxes from millionaires and ionaires and corporations. that is tle-down economics on steroids. i profoundly disagree. i think the way you build an economy is from the middle out and the bottom up, not from the top down. <applause> when you think about it,  hasn't paid anything for 20 years. he's paid zero to support our military, our vets, pell grants for students here at g vley, our highways - and i am still pondering, i am just pondering how anybody can lose a ion dollars in one year. especily when you're running casinos. i do not understand that. but that will be one of the mysteries in this campaign because he's not going to release his tax returns now and the e you start voting. and that sort of suggests there must be something rely terrible in those tax returns because everybody else for more than 40 years has released them. so, we'll still wonder. but what we know is his economic approach will cost us jobs, not create jobs. and we can't afford that. we need to keep building. we have recovered from the worst financi crash since the great depression but we're not where we need to be yet. the last thing we need is a failed economic policy coming back in and pushing us back down. and depriving people of the jobs that we want to create. <applause> and if you believe l of our kids should have good schools and good teachers no matter what zip code they live in then you have to vote. <applause> and if you believe college should be affordable you have to vote. i've got to say i am proud of the campaign that   and i ran. it was a campaign about ideas and issues, not insults. and when it was over, we actuly got together. what a novel idea. we wan to figure out how we can work together to actuly produce on some of the gos that we both shared. so  and i worked on this plan together. public colleges and universities should be tuition-free for everyone who makes less than a $125,000 a year. and they should be debt-free for everyone else because nobody should go into debt. and if you have gone into debt, if you're among the millions of amans who are struggling - as i see some hands pointing in the air - paying back your student debt, we are going to help you pay it down and pay it off. <applause> it makes no sense at l. we have interest rates that are rely low right now. buy a car for what, 1 or 2 percent. you can buy a house for 3,4 percent. there are so many people who are paying 8, 10, 12, higher - 8, 10, 12 percent interest - how much? twelve point seven. fourteen point one. i got to tell you friends. that is outrageous. the feder government should not be ma money off of sending kids to college. <applause> i can't wait to roll up my sleeves with debbie and  and we're gonna get to work right after this election if i am fortunate enough to win. <applause> look. wor for children and families has been the cause of my life, but it's never been more important than it is right now. and that has to be our mission together. doing l we can to help every aman, and especily every young aman and every child in ama to have the chance to live up to their god-given potenti. i will wake up every single day in the white house trying to figure out what i can do to make that a reity for you. <applause> so after tomorrow the work will begin, and one of the highest priorities that i feel an obligation to address is how we bring our country together. a lot of people say we've got to he our country, or as the bible says repair the breach. because we have so much divisiveness right now. we've got to start listening to each other. respecting each other. i know it is unusu, i admit, for somebody running for president, especily the day before an election, but i've been saying this for months. to say that we need more of two things right now. we need more love and kindness in ama. <applause> i don't know about you, i don't know about you but i bet everyone of us has received a kindness and maybe, i , we've l extended one. i am standing here today because my mother, who was abandoned by her parents, rejec by her gparents, went to work at the age of 14 as a maid, and a babysitter, was extended kindness. not by those who should have loved her, but by others. the first grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat at lunch, who began bringing extra food. the woman whose house she went to work in who knew that my mother wan to go to high school. she would have been a freshman in high school when she had to leave her gparents' home and she got this job. and that woman said, "i know you want to go to high school. if you get up early and you get your chores done, you can go to high school, but you'll have to come back because we'll need you in the late afternoon." now that may sound harsh to say to a 14-year old but to my mother it was a gift. i tell you this because we l have to start thin about how we want to be trea and what that means about how we treat others. and ... <applause> there's a version of the golden rule in every major religion. and it is a reminder that every one of us gets knocked down. the question as my mother would say is are you gonna get back up? and for people in our country who feel like they've been knocked down and nobody cares, nobody's paying attention, here's what i want you to know. if you give me the honor of being your president i'm gonna do everything i can to get this country and everybody in it back up on our feet moving forward together. <applause> because i want to be a president for l amans. <applause> s, s, independents. not just the people who support me, everybody in this country. because i believe with l my heart each of us has a role to play in building a better future. so let's take that first step tomorrow. if you don't know where you're supposed to vote go to iwillvote.com - you can get l the information you need. if you want to help us bringing out the vote here in western michigan in the last 24, 36 hours, you can still sign up to volunteer. go to .com. or you can text join247246 or stop by one of our offices. we would be rely exci to see you, because when your kids and gkids ask what you did in 2016, when everything was on the line, i  you'll be able to say that you vo for a better, stronger, fairer ama. <applause> an ama where we build bridges, not wls. <applause> and an ama where we prove that yes, love s hate. thank you l so much.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in south florida (sd/24)">
<date:"2016-11-05">
<:> thank you! thank you so much! <applause> hello, pembroke pines! <applause> hello, florida! <applause> i am thrilled to be here. and boy, is this a hardy group. rain or shine, you're ready. <applause> i love -- i just looked over here, i saw a man who's changed his sign from "i will vote" to "i have vo." <applause> you know, i am thrilled to be here with l of you. and i want to start by than sybrina fulton for that introduction. <applause> i have to tell you, on a very person note, one of the privileges of this campaign over the last year-and-a-hf has been getting to know sybrina and l the mothers of the movement. they are some of the bravest people you'll ever meet. they have taken the heartbreak and the anguish of losing their children to either gun violence or encounters with the police, and they've turned it into action. the trayvon  foundation that sybrina founded to honor her son is part of the agenda, part of her mission. i'm very grateful to her for her commitment to make ama a fairer, safer, better place. thank you, sybrina. <applause> now, we've got a bunch of great folks here with me i want to have stand up. and i  that you will send him to work with me in the senate, congressman pat murphy. <applause> so with us, congressman  deutch... <applause> ... congresswoman debbie wasserman schultz... <applause> ... congressman cee hastings... <applause> ... the mayor of pembroke pines, frank ortis... <applause> ... the vice mayor of broward county, barbara sharief... <applause> ... broward county school board member patti good... <applause> ... mayor phil levine l the way from miami beach. <applause> and i especily want to thank my friend of so many years, i was trying to think about this as we were driving, i don't know when we first met, but we were both rely, rely young... <laughter> ... i weingarten. <applause> and ong with than i, the president of the aft, let me thank l the educators, l the teachers. <applause> i think it's about e we stopped scapegoating teachers and start supporting teachers. <applause> now, every day in this campaign is exciting. and being here with l of you, the last saturday before election day, rely gets me geared up. we are seeing tremendous momentum, large numbers of people turning out, brea records in a lot of places. now, just in case you didn't notice last night, i've got to say i was with jay z and beyonce. <applause> they were amazing. you can go online and watch it. it was the most extraordinary show. you know, when a famous entertainer says, hey, i want to support you, help get out the vote, that is such a gift. but the thought that went into what they did last night, my person favorite part was beyonce had her backup singers and dancers in pantsuits. i mean... <applause> but what was rely touching to me is both of them tked about what this election means for their daughter and for l of our daughters and our sons, every single child. <applause> so i've got to ask you, are you ready?
<audience: yes!>
<:> how many of you have ready vo? <applause> ok. so that means you've got e to get everybody else to get out and vote, right? <applause> now, did any of you see the debates?
<audience: yes!>
<:> i spent four-and-a-hf hours standing next to   on that stage... <booing> ... proving once and for l that i have the stamina to be president of the uni states. <applause> now, you know, he kept saying things like, well, what have you done for 30 years? and i'm thin to myself, , you don't want to go there. <laughter> i mean, i would have been happy to spend l four-and-a-hf hours t about what i did compared to what he's done for the last 30 years. <applause> as your first lady, i helped to create the children's heth insurance program which insures 8 million kids a year. <applause> as senator, i worked to rebuild new york city and make our country safer and get our first responders the heth care they needed. <applause> as your secretary of state, i traveled to 112 countries, i've stood up for n rights, women's rights, worker rights and lgbt rights. <applause> i have spent my career fighting for kids and families. and if you elect me, that's what i'll keep doing. <applause> now, my friends, you are a hardy bunch to stand out here in the rain. i don't think i need to tell you l of the wrong things about  . but here's what i want you to remember: i want to be the president for everybody, everybody who agrees with me, people who don't agree with me, people who vote for me, people who don't vote for me. <applause> so let's get out, let's vote for the future. let's vote for what we want for our country and our children and our gchildren. god bless you!<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in pittsburgh, pennsylvania (sd/24)">
<date:"2016-11-04">
<:> it is great to be here. <applause> thank you. <applause> i -- i am very happy to be in the home of the steelers. <applause> and i rely appreciate having my two escorts, mel blount and franco harris. <applause> i am very grateful to have this chance to be in pittsburgh so close to this election. now, i know the steelers have a big on sunday against bore. <applause> let's hear it for coach tomlin and the team. <applause> his wonderful wife, kiya, is here and i'm very proud to have the support of dan rooney and pat rooney and the entire rooney family. <applause> dan was a great ambassador to ireland when i was secretary of state, and wherever he goes, he's a great ambassador for pittsburgh. so i thank dan and i thank jim rooney, who was so helpful in putting this together, and everyone from the steelers family. now, you've just heard two terrific speeches, haven't you? <applause> i can't tell you how exci i am to be back here in pittsburgh with one of your own, somebody who has made it, but never forgot where he came from, someone who i rely admire because of the way he's done his business. and it's an absolute honor, mark, to have your support in this campaign. <applause> and i'll -- i'll have more to say about my friend katie mcginty, but boy, i  you're gonna send her to washington. <applause> i so -- i want to recognize my friend and former colleague senator bob casey, who is here. <applause> pittsburgh mayor,  peduto is here. <applause> legheny county executive, rich fitzgerd, who is here. <applause> and -- and two great labor leaders who are so here, the president of the aman federation of teachers i weingarten is here. <applause> and the president of the uni steel workers, leo gerard, is here. <applause> it's great to have l of these strong supporters out in these last four days. that's l that's left in what may be the most important election of our lifees. so are you ready to vote, pittsburgh?
<audience: yes! (applause)>
<:> are you ready to volunteer for these last four days, to get out to vote <ph>? <applause> are you ready to elect katie mcginty to the uni states senate? <applause> i'll tell you, i've known katie, she's a re fighter and she will be the kind of independent voice that pennsylvania families deserve. and unlike her opponent, she's never been afraid to stand up to  . <applause> and now let me ask you, are you ready to choose our next president and commander-in-chief? <applause>
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> wow. i'll tell you...
<audience: ! ! ! >
<:> i think this is one of the best places for a crowd event ever. <applause> folks -- folks here get l fired up and energized. and... <applause> i have to ask you, did -- did any of you see the debates?
<audience: yes!>
<:> well, i spent four and hf-hours standing next to  , proving conclusively i have stamina to be the next president. <applause> but, you know, he said so many -- so many things in those debates... <laughter> ... you know, when you debate in front of, you know, 60, 70, 80 million plus people, you gotta -- you gotta have a sense of preparation, readiness, cmness, composure, and i'll tell you some of what i heard coming from my opponent, it was rely hard not to go, what did you say? <applause> you know, he kept -- he kept saying things like well, what have you done for 30 years and, well, we know what he's done for 30 years and i mean, back in the '70s, he star with discriminating against african-amans and latinos by refusing to rent them apartments in new york. <booing> he has a long history of insulting people. it did not just start in the campaign. you can go back and -- and find what he said about l kinds of folks, and one of the things i discovered in preparing for the debates which i was kind of surprised by, is that he took out a full page in 1987 to criticize president reagan, so he is an equ opportunity insulter. <laughter> you know, but i did choose a different path from him. i've spent my career fighting for kids and families and i'm proud that i have. <applause> i helped to start something cled the children's heth insurance program as first lady. <applause> it covers eight million kids and i have to tell you that traveling around pennsylvania -- rely anywhere in the country -- i meet people who have been affec by the kinds of changes that we can do that give more folks a chance to get ahead. i'm l about ma sure the aman dream is big enough for everybody. <applause> and we're going to knock down the barriers that stand in the way and, you know, if you don't have your heth, it's pretty hard to get ahead, right? and so, i meet families who tell me about what that meant and it makes me very grateful. and i was a senator from new york on 9/11... <applause> ... and i spent my eight years in the senate helping to rebuild new york, keep us safer at home, and to provide heth care to our brave first responders, our firefighters, our police, our emts who ran toward danger. <applause> and as your secretary of state, i traveled to 112 countries, negotia cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons... <applause> ... stood up for n rights, and women's rights, and workers' rights, and lgbt rights around the world. <applause> now, i -- i rely believe that if you want to get things done that'll help people you start by listening to people, bringing them together, and i know that is not very exciting, i admit. and i do feel kind of sorry for the press covering me because what are they going to say for the 100th e? she was listening to people. <laughter> i get that, but everything i've done star there and then you bring people together, you put them around the table. they don't l agree with each other, and then you work to find common ground. that's what i did in the senate and as secretary of state. i could've never gotten anything done if i hadn't worked with s... <applause> ... and others who had different points of view. and i want you to know if you elect me on tuesday that is the kind of president i will be. listening... <applause> ... learning, finding common ground. <applause> and from the very first day of this campaign, i've been putting forward my ideas about how to help you and your families get ahead and i truly believe you deserve a candidate you can vote for, not just someone to vote against. <applause> and so, you can go to my website,   and i wrote a book cled "stronger together" because i want you to know what the agenda is and i want you to hold me accountable. when i come back to pittsburgh, which i  to do on a regular basis...<applause>
<:> ... i want people to say, "hey, you know, i saw where you wan to do more on infrastructure. how's that going? how many new jobs do we have? what kinds of opportunities do we have with clean, renewable energy jobs? what about raising the nation minimum wage?" <applause> now, one way or another, ama is going to have a new president on january 20th, right? and people say l the e that they want change. well, we will get change, change is inevitable, that is certain. the question is what kind of change are we going to have. <applause> and -- and here's where i think the choice could not be clearer. are we going to build a stronger, fairer, better ama? or are we going to fear each other and the future, hunker down against each other? i don't think that will lead to anything positive. and what i  we will do in this election and in these remaining four days, is to think about the kind of country we want, imagine what we can do together. every e i come into pittsburgh now, because i star driving through pittsburgh decades ago because my dad was from scranton and we drove through pennsylvania every year. <applause> we took different routes and we went to different places. and i -- with my own eyes -- have seen the ups and the downs of this great city. and now, when i drive in, what do i see? i see a positive, opistic, confident city ma progressive, moving forward. <applause> and i don't think you do anything in life unless you kind of imagine what it will look like. and then you get to work to do it. that's how mark has built these great companies, right here in pittsburgh when he was a young guy and wor hard for everything he had. he got a chance to start imagining and then he got a chance to start acting and producing results. well, that's the way it works. that's the way it works with the steelers, right? i mean people imagine what the team can be like, they plan. the coaches, they work hard. the players, like mel and franco, they practice, they plan. you don't just say, hey, just get out on the field, do whatever you want. <laughter> that's not the way it works, my friends. and so what i'm hoping is that we will imagine two different amas. just for the sake of this exercise, imagine it's   standing in front of the capitol. <booing> and we ready know a lot about him. someone who demeans women, mocks people with disabilities, insults african amans and latinos and demonizes immigrants and muslims and pits people against each other instead of pulling us together. and think about what it would mean to entrust the nuclear codes to someone... <booing> ... with a very thin skin, who lashes out at anyone who chlenges him. imagine how easily it could be that   would feel insul and start a re war -- not just a twitter war -- at 3:00 in the morning. imagine what it would mean for our economy to have someone who built his career exploiting workers, stiffing sml businesses. now, you heard earlier from  tesoro. he designed a building for  .  told him he loved it, it was at one of his golf courses and then  would not pay the . now,  didn't have the resources to sue the  organization. so  just wked away from what was owed. this is someone who personly signed -- not some executive -- he personly signed a contract with a union-busting firm to keep workers at one of his hotels from being able to organize and bargain collectively.<booing>
<:> and just yesterday,   was told he was brea the law by not negotiating with his hotel workers in las vegas. and we know -- and the steelworkers sure know -- he chose to build two of his buildings with chinese steel and uminum instead of supporting ama's steel industry and aman steelworkers. <booing> everywhere he goes, he leaves people behind. you know, one of my gos as president is to encourage more companies to do what mark did with profit-sharing. if any of you were with us when mark endorsed me,   and i were here, in pittsburgh and he tked about how he had shared the profits of his company, including the profits he gained when he sold his companies. i think you told me mark, you made 300 millionaires at your first company. <applause> look, we've got to have a strong private sector, we need business to be creating more jobs. i rely like the kind of jobs and business that mark does, because what he is to worry about and take care the people who helped made him successful in the first place. <applause> now, imagine having a president who owes hundreds of millions of dollars to foreign banks and other foreign entities that he doesn't tell us about. ask yourself, so if he's sitting across the table negotiating with people from those countries, is he going to put his own financi interests ahead of ama's interests? i can tell you this, when i'm sitting across the table from the russians or anyone else, i know who i'm representing. the aman people and our interests. <applause> now, my friends, we got some good news this morning, our economy crea 161,000 jobs last month.
<:> that is... <applause> that is 73 straight months of job growth. <applause> and i believe that our economy is poised to rely take off and thrive, but we need to make sure the economy is wor for everyone not just those at the top and that is my pledge. i believe in growth from the middle out and the bottom up. when the middle class thrives, ama thrives. <applause>   believes something different, he wants an economy that works for him. that's why he wants to give the biggest tax breaks in history to the super wethy and big corporations. his own family would get a $4 ion tax break, now... <booing> ... figure that out. we know he hasn't paid taxes, right? if it turns out that he's as rich as he claims, it would be tle down economics on steroids. the wethy would be paying lower tax rates than ever. his plan -- and this is what i want you to hear -- so, he's ta care of himself, he's ta care of his family, he's ta care of the super wethy and corporations, his plan would actuly raise taxes on 26 million low-income and middle class people. <booing> he would hit especily hard -- 51 percent of single parents would see their taxes go up. <booing> that means that 316,000 wor families in pennsylvania would pay more under 's plan. honestly, i don't know how he lives with himself. doesn't he see -- doesn't he see what we see? the millions of moms and dads struggling to make ends meet, bance the demands of work and family? or does he just not care? remember, this is a man who said pregnancy is an inconvenience for an employer. <booing> he has said, and i quote, "putting a wife to work is a very dangerous thing." <booing> well, i see things differently. when i say we need to make the economy work for everyone, not just those at the top, i mean everyone. families are facing a lot of pressures. in many families, women are contributing to the income of their families or they are the sole -- the sole income in the family. <applause> more people than ever are wor gigs on the side just to make extra money or to make ends meet and for wor families, the cost of everything is going up from childcare to prescription drugs, to college education. and i think we l know, somebody who's wor two minimum wage jobs and trying to raise their families at the e e. it's hard being good workers and good parents. and we know young people who want to start a sml business the way mark did it, when he got going and maybe they want to buy a first home or they just got married and they're trying to get ahead in life, but student debt is holding them back. and i want us to know that i will do everything i can to help ease the costs of middle class and wor and poor families so that more people... <applause> ... can do better.<applause>
<:> and right now, so many of the people -- so many of the people who are doing the toughest, most important jobs in our country are getting paid the least. and a lot of them are women and people of color, right? childcare workers trying to take care of our kids... <applause> ... nurses who work the night shift and spend more e with their patients than the doctors do, the home heth aides who keep our seniors independent and hethy. <applause> there are so many jobs of vue to our society where the paychecks don't reflect how important they are. so i will do everything i can to get incomes rising for hardwor people. whether you work in steel, whether you work in a factory, whether you're a machinist, a nurse, a teacher, a firefighter, a police office, whatever you are, you deserve to be part of a growing, thriving, middle-class economy. <applause> and so that's why -- that's why we're going to raise the nation minimum wage... <applause> ... and we're going to join every other advanced economy and make sure we've got paid family and medic leave so you can take care of the people you love. <applause> and here it is, 2016. don't you think it's finly e to guarantee equ pay for women? <applause> well, i got to tell you, this is not a woman's issue, it's a family issue. if you have a mother, a wife, a daughter, a sister, you want her to be paid equly because that goes to your family's bottom line. now, i've gotten sort of used to the fact, that when i tk about equ pay, or paid family leave, or affordable child care,   and his supporters say i'm playing the woman card. well, i'll tell you what. if fighting for those kids and family issues is playing the women's card, you know what i say, de me in. <applause> we are going to invest in our people, especily our young people. we don't have anybody to waste or leave behind. we can't leave any tent on the sidelines. and we've got to make sure we fight against discrimination. <applause> we've got to work in communities where factories have closed and nothing has come in to replace it, like so many places in centr and western pa. and we're going to make the biggest investment in good- paying jobs since world war ii. there's a lot of good work to be done in this country, and that work will put people in jobs here in ama that cannot be expor. they've got to be done right here. <applause> so, my friends, we're going to make our economy stronger for decades, we're going to make ama the 21st century clean energy superpower... <applause> ... we're going to produce enough renewable energy to power every home. we're going to make it easier for sml businesses and entrepreneurs to get the credit they need to grow. and we're going to make it possible again to say and believe it that in ama, if you can dream it, you can build it. <applause> and part of that dream is ma sure people get the education and the skills they need. so here's what i want to do. starting in pre-school, i want to better prepare every kid to do well in re school. right? <applause> i want every kid to have good schools and good teachers in every zip code in ama, not just some.<applause>
<:> i want us to bring back technic education to high school, and once again... <applause> ... lift up those good paying, necessary jobs that don't require a four-year college degree. <applause> i want us to do more with our community colleges and more apprenticeship programs by unions and businesses to help prepare people. <applause> and i am tired of meeting young people that can't either start or finish college because they can't afford it. <applause> we're going to make public colleges and universities tuition-free if you make less than $125,000 a year. <applause> and for people who are... <audio gap>
<:> you know i make lists l the e. <laughter> i make lists of my lists. <laughter> but i have a list about what we're going to do, and it's because it l comes down to this, i love our country and i believe in the aman people. and i know there's nothing we can't achieve if we work together. <applause> so, as you head to the polls, as you tk to your friends and neighbors who might still be deciding who to vote for, please ask them to search their heart about what kind of country we want for our kids and our gkids. <applause> it is not as important that they think about voting for me as it is they think about voting for themselves. <applause> every issue we care about is on the blot on tuesday. and i know that if we have a big win on tuesday, we will have a big wind behind our backs going into the government in january. <applause> so tell everybody, please, to vote and that you can make the difference going to the polls on tuesday, november 8th. if you don't know where to vote, go to iwillvote.com to confirm your voting location or to find out how to send in an absentee blot. we are on track right now to having the biggest turn out in aman history. <applause> people in states where they have early voting have ready set a record. we have 31 million people who've ready vo. <applause> and if you know anybody here in pittsburgh or in western pa who's thin about voting for , please stage an intervention before it's too late. <applause> i mean, rely, just sit down with them and ask them what they care about. and if they say they're just frustra or angry, say you understand, but anger's not a plan. <applause> we've got work to do. we're going to roll up our sleeves and we're going to do it together.<applause>
<:> and if you can give us any e -- if you can give us any e to volunteer, go to .com to sign up or text join, j-o-i-n, at 47246 because, believe me, i don't want any of us -- not me and not you -- to wake up on wednesday and think, "if we'd only done a little bit more, things would have turned out differently." somees the fate of the greatest nations comes down to single moments in e. this is one of those make-or-break moments for the uni states. it is in your hands. <applause> and when your kids and your gkids ask what you did in 2016, when everything was on the line, i  you'll be able to say, "i vo for a better, stronger, fairer ama..." <applause> ... where we build <ph> wls. we don't build wls, we build bridges. and where we build the future that we want. and where we prove once and for l that love s hate." <applause> thank you l. god bless you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event, oakland, pennsylvania">
<date:"2016-11-07">
<:> hello, pittsburgh! <applause> whoa! hello, back there.
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> thank you. thank you. wow. <applause><applause>
<:> it's great to be here at this extraordinary e in our country's history at this great university. <applause> to have a chance on a beautiful day to lift our sights, to think about what we are capable of doing together, the kind of future that we can create if we search for and find common ground. and it is thrilling to have traveled across our country to see the fulness. to tk about the positive changes that are occurring, to rely see ama at its best. and tomorrow each and every one of you gets to make a decision as to whether or not first you will vote, because in pennsylvania it is l about election day. <applause> other places around the country have been voting for weeks, and what you will vote for. i am here to ask you to vote for yourselves, vote for your families, vote for your futures. vote on the issue that matter to you because they are on the blot, not just my name and my opponent's name. <applause> i want to thank tom colicchio for coming out here. he is in the middle of opening up another one of his great restaurants. but he said he has these two sml kids and he just had to come and be apart of lifting up this election and creating the kind of commitment that will bring a record-brea number amans to vote. we are on the path to see more amans vote than we have ever seen in our history. <applause> i am hoping that you wont just come out and vote. obviously i  you vote for me, but i so  -- i  that you will send katie mcginty to the uni states senate. <applause> we've got some great elec officis here and i want to recognize congressmen  doyle. <applause> county executive rich fitzgerd. from pittsburgh, mayor  peitersen. <applause> from dock pa, mayor  fetterman. <applause> but mostly i am here to say thanks. thanks for ta e out to think about what's the stakes are -- i love you l too, absolutely. <applause>
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> so for those who are still ma up your minds or thin maybe its not worth voting at l, let me just say, the choice in this election could not be clearer. it rely is between division or unity. between strong and steady leadership or a loose cannon. between an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top, and an economy that is set up and run for those at top. now i have spent my public career fighting for kids and families and standing up for our country. and if you give me the privilege of your vote tomorrow that is what i will do every single day of my presidency. <applause> i will get up in the white house and i will think about what i can do that day to knock down barriers to create opportunities so that you have the chance to fulfill your own dreams. you see, i believe ama's best days are still ahead of us.<applause>
<:> now, that doesn't mean we do have to work for it, because we do. that doesn't mean we can just expect it to happen as kind of a birthright. but i rely believe that. i would not have work for 18 months, traveled across our country, fought as hard as i have about what we need to do and how to do it together, proudly stand up and defend the legacy of president  which has... <applause> ... given our country progress in the right direction, if i did not believe with l my heart that we could do this. right? <applause> we can do this! <applause> we don't have to accept a dark and divisive vision for ama. tomorrow you can vote for a ful, inclusive, big-hear ama. <applause> and our core vues are being tes in this election. and i know that people are frustra. a lot of people feel left out and left behind. there's fear even anger in our country. but i've got to say anger is not a plan my friends. if we're going to harness our energy and try to overcome our problems, then we've got to start t to each other again. <applause> and we have to get good ideas wherever they come from. last night i was in manchester, new hampshire and i was with khizr khan whose son captain khan was killed while serving in iraq. you might remember him from the  convention. he was not a man to be on the stage of a politic convention. but when he heard my opponent say what he said about muslims and he looked at the flag that had been draped on his son's coffin, he felt compelled to speak out. he spoke powerfully about what ama means to him, and how we have to defend our vues and our constitution. as he said last night, his son, serving in the uni states army with his unit saw something suspicious, moved toward it to check it out, telling his men to stay behind. and when the car exploded, he lost his life <inaudible> the bronze star and the purple <inaudible>. but as mr. khan said when you listen to l of the people that my opponent has insul and denigra, would there be a place in  's ama for captain khan? the khan family gives me  because they truly believe in the vues of <inaudible> of ours. and they have stood up, holding the constitution as he did at the <inaudible> to say people around the world, cherish this constitution, believe in our vues <inaudible> for ions of people we will never, ever let that go. and we will <inaudible> someone rip it away in the kind of negative divisive, hateful campaign that we have seen <inaudible> in this election. <applause> somees when i hear my opponent speak, i don't recognize <inaudible>. it doesn't mean we don't have problems and chlenges. it doesn't mean that <inaudible> to do more to help our country get better economic opportunities. of course we do. <inaudible> i believe we could <inaudible>. i love our country. <inaudible> the aman people. i know what we are capable of. <applause> <inaudible> throughout our history generations of amans have risen together to meet the test of their e. they defended democracy, built the greatest middle class the world has <inaudible>, marched for civil rights, for workers' rights <inaudible>, rights for people with disabilities.<applause>
<:> <inaudible> we face the test <inaudible>. will we be coming together as a nation <inaudible> further apart? will we set gos that l of us <inaudible> meet? will we turn on each other and pit one group of amans <ph> against another? now, our names will be on the blot tomorrow, but those vues and <inaudible> you care about will be <ph> there too. what kind of country do we want? and i particularly think about this for young people as i look at <inaudible> so many <inaudible> amans who deserve the e opportunities and the <inaudible> many of us were given. <applause> we will make sure they are available, because if you think about what it takes to have a thriving ama, it comes down to a couple of key <inaudible>. if you believe that ama thrives when the middle <inaudible>, then you have to vote. <applause> we're gonna make the biggest investment in good-paying jobs since world war ii; jobs in infrastructure, sml business, clean energy, advanced manufacturing. <applause> we're gonna actuly deliver on that, unlike my opponent, who makes his products mostly overseas <inaudible> chinese steel and uminum <inaudible> made by aman steel workers right here in pennsylvania. <booing> <inaudible> in aman and we're especily going to invest in communities that are left out <inaudible> stand up for the <inaudible> across ama. <applause> <inaudible> economy as i do, then the nation <inaudible> because nobody who works <inaudible> be in poverty. <applause> and we're gonna do more to support wor families with affordable childcare <inaudible>. <applause> i've got to tell you. this <inaudible> the biggest applause ever because <inaudible> know it's not fair, but it's so <inaudible> wor, you don't want <inaudible> do you?
<audience: no!>
<:> when i tk about equ pay and l these other family <inaudible> my opponent says i'm playing the woman's card. well, you know what i <inaudible> de me in. <applause> you know, if you believe l of our kids should have good schools and good teachers no matter what zip code they <inaudible> you have to vote. <applause> if <inaudible> that we can make college <inaudible> for every young <inaudible>. <applause> <audio gap>
<:> and after it was over, he and i got together and we came up with this plan. public colleges and universities should be tuition free for everyone who makes less than $125,000 a year. <applause> and it should be debt-free for everyone else. i don't think you should go into this massive debt to get your education. it's good for you, it's good for your families, it's good for our country. and we're going to make it affordable for everyone. <applause> and for the millions of amans ready struggling with student debt, we're going to ease that burden. we're going to get those interest rates down. we're going to give you a different way of repaying it as a percentage of your income. not tied to a six, eight, ten percent interest rate. <applause> and you're never going to have to pay more than you can afford. <applause> you see, i think there are a lot of positive things to get exci about. and i think the agenda we've put forth in this campaign is one that will rely give everybody . you see, wor for children and families has been the cause of my life but it's never been more important than it is right now. so this has to be our mission together. doing l we can to help every aman, especily every young aman and especily every child to have the chance to live up to your god-given potenti. because when it's l said and done, that's what matters most. have you helped somebody else? have you reached out and tried to ease somebody's burden? we do it individuly. my mother got through a neglec, abandoned childhood because people showed her kindness. her own parents didn't want her, her gparents didn't want her. but that first grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat brought extra food every single day to make sure my mother had something to eat. <applause> and when she was 14 and had to go out and find a job to support herself and got a job as a maid and a babysitter in somebody's home, she was just relieved that she had a place to live and that she could support herself. but the mother of that home understood my mom wan to go to high school. so she said, "dorothy, if you get up early and you get your chores done, you can go to high school. you'll have to come right back because we'll need you, but you can do it." now look, that sounds harsh to our ears, telling a 14-year-old, "ok, you can go to high school but you've got to come right back and you have to work on both sides of it." but to my mother it was a blessing.
<:> so when i think about what so many people have gone through to give us the opportunities that we have had -- and i'm spea for myself. my mother gave me the resilience, the grit, the get up and go. she told me everybody gets knocked down. what matters is whether you get back up. <applause> and we had a lot of amans knocked down because of the great recession, didn't we? millions of jobs were lost, millions of homes were lost. family weth was wiped out, savings accounts, 401<k>s, everything that people had worked so hard for. well, we've dug ourselves out of the hole, now we've got to get up. and we've got to make sure we don't leave anybody behind. i see this man standing here with a sign, co miners for , and i'll tell you, sir... <applause> i know how hard es are and as i have said and you can take it to the bank, i will not forget you and i will do everything i can to help people who have given so much, worked so hard throughout their lives for generations to build this country. we are not gonna forget any aman! <applause> but i can't do any of this without your help tomorrow. this election is going to rely set the course of our country. there's no doubt in my mind. tonight, i'll be in philadelphia with president  and . <applause> and i so appreciate how hard they have worked for me, but it's not for me. it's for us. you know, when president  came into office, put yourself in his shoes, this young, dynamic, first african- aman elec to become president of the uni states. <applause> and what does he find? he finds the worst financi crisis since the great depression, that's what he finds. wow, those were hard, hard es. i don't think he gets the credit he deserves for ma sure we didn't go even deeper into the ditch we were in. <applause> but make no mistake, there were reasons we ended up in that ditch, it didn't happen by accident. we had huge tax cuts on the wethy. the administration in office took their eyes off the financi markets and we know what happened. they ignored the pressures in the mortgage markets and we know what happened. elections have consequences for everything we care about, and that's why we've got to have each and every one of you put down your stake in our future. if the lines are long tomorrow, please wait. <applause> in early voting, we have had people waiting in line for two and three hours. and there have been reporters and others going up and down the line, as people, l kinds amans, not one type, l types. why are you here? because my future depends on it, they say.<applause>
<:> so tomorrow is the election, but that is just the beginning. we have to he this country. we have to bring people together, listen and respect each other. now, i know it's unusu for somebody running for president to say this, i star saying this months ago because i literly was meeting people who were scared by what they were hearing in the election. you know, i've known a lot of the s who've run for president, been elec president in recent history. i didn't agree with them on everything. obviously, we had our differences. but i didn't doubt that they were fit to serve as president. this election's different. this person is temperamently unquified, experientily unquified to be president and commander-in-chief. and so many people know that. <applause> so i think we do need some more love and kindness. right? <applause> we have got to rise above l of this hate-filled rhetoric, l of these insults and scapegoating and finger-pointing and insulting. i want to be the president for l amans, not just some. i want to be the president for s, s and independents. <applause> i want to be the president for those who vote for me and those who vote against me. i want to represent everybody. <applause> because i know we have a role to play in building a better future. so it starts tomorrow. if you don't know where to vote, go to iwillvote.com. you can get l the information you need. the polls will be open from seven a.m. to eight p.m. we are on track, as i said, to have a huge turnout. but we can only do that if l of you make up your minds, you bring your friends, everybody you know to make sure your voices are heard. this is a historic election and we're going to do everything we can not only to win, but then immediately to get to work. and i especily... <applause> i especily invite anyone who wants to volunteer for the next 24 hours, go to .com, text join join, j-o-i-n, to 47246. stop by one of our offices, we would love to see you. because when your kids and your gkids ask you in the future what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, you'll be able to say you vo for a stronger, fairer, better ama where we build bridges, not wls. <applause> and where we finly <inaudible> for l that love s hate!
<audience: love s hate!>
<:> thank you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in kent, ohio">
<date:"2016-10-31">
<:> wow, thank you so much! and hello, kent state! <applause> and happy hloween, everybody. it is great to be back in ohio, even if the world series is ma life very stressful for cubs fans everywhere. <laughter> i want to thank bruce blair for that introduction and for his service to our nation. i think every aman should hear his story over the next eight days before they vote. i so want to thank everyone who was part of the pre-program. in particular, let me thank senator sherrod brown, such a great senator. <applause> my dear friend and great congressman,  . <applause> state representative  boccieri. <applause> state representative kathleen clyde. <applause> and let me thank kent clark, the acapella group that sang during the pre-program. <applause> my friends, we are about to enter the fin week of this election, so i wan to come back to ohio, one of the most competitive and consequenti battleground states in the country, to tk about what's at stake in this election. but let me start with this. i'm sure a lot of you may be as what this new e-mail story is about and why in the world the fbi would decide to jump into an election with no evidence of any wrongdoing with just days to go. <booing> that's a good question. and first of l, for those of you who are concerned about my using person e-mail, i understand. and as i've said, i'm not ma excuses. i've said it was a mistake and i regret it. and now they apparently want to look at e-mails of one of my staffers. and by l means, they should look at them. and i am sure they will reach the e conclusion they did when they looked at my e-mails for the last year. there is no case here. <applause> and they said it wasn't even a close cl. and i think most people have decided a long e ago what they think about l of this. now what people are focused on is choosing the next president and commander in chief of the uni states of ama. <applause> and did any of you see the debates? <applause> well, i think it was important because i had a chance to tk about my 30 years of public service and my plans for our country. and then people could weigh that against what my opponent has done and said. i am running against a man who says he doesn't understand why we can't use nuclear weapons. he actuly said, then why are we ma them? and he wants more countries to have nuclear weapons, japan, south korea, even saudi arabia. imagine, imagine nuclear weapons smack in the middle of the middle east. and if you're telling yourself he'll surround himself with smart people who will stop these crazy ideas, remember this. when he was asked who he consults on foreign policy,   said he didn't need to consult because, and i quote, i have a very good brain. <laughter> he says he knows more about isis than our geners do. no, he does not. <laughter> and, of course, the people   has around him include two men whose activities are reporly being investiga for their ties to russia,   and 's lies. so in these last days, let's not get distrac from the re choice in this election and the consequences for your future. <applause> i star saying last june, i believe, that   has proven himself to be temperamently unfit and totly unquified to be president and commander in chief. <applause> and i've got to tell you, i did not take any pleasure in saying that. i have known, i have known for years now, people who ran for president, s and s, and i have my differences with s and even with s, but i never doub their fitness to serve.   is different. that's as serious as it gets. so today i want to tk about nation security because when the election is over and people wake up on november 9th, we will have picked the person who will carry the responsibility for l of these weighty decisions, and that should rely convince anyone how high the stakes are in this election. i just want to focus on three of the most cruci questions facing the next president: can you be trus to command our nuclear arsen and make literly life-and-death decisions about war and peace? how do you handle a crisis? and do you know the difference between our lies and our adversaries? <applause> we'll start with nuclear weapons. now, i know there are some who will say that any discussion of this topic could be fearmongering, but i don't think so, and in part because of what you just heard from bruce blair. when dozens of retired nuclear launch officers publicly state that   should, and i quote, "not have his finger on the button," then this is a topic that can't be avoided. and as i've said,  has repey sugges more countries should have nuclear weapons. he must not reize or care that the more nuclear materi there is in the world, the more likely terrorists are to get their hands on it, or that someone will miscculate and start a war that can't be stopped. and when a few more countries go nuclear, their neighbors will feel pressure to do so as well. one of the reasons i worked so hard to impose sanctions on iran so that we could get them to the negotiating table was so we would not have a nuclear arms race in the middle east. and i am proud that we put a lid on iran's nuclear weapons program. <applause> but even the prospect of an actu nuclear war doesn't seem to bother  . good luck, enjoy yourselves, folks, was what he had to say about a potenti nuclear conflict in asia. i wonder if he knows that a single nuclear warhead can kill millions of people. these are weapons today far more powerful than the bombs that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki during world war ii. to tk so casuly, so cavierly about mass annihilation is truly appling. president rond reagan once said, and he worked hard for arms control and i admired what he did wor with the soviet union, and he once said he feared, and this is a quote from president reagan, "some fool or some maniac or some accident triggering the kind of war that is the end of the line for l of us." that has been the fear and the commitment of  and  presidents since the dawn of the atomic age. so what would he think about   who says he wants to be, and quote, "unpredictable" about using the most powerful weapons ever produced? and here's the thing with nuclear weapons. as bruce told you, when the president gives the order, that's it. there's no veto for congress, no veto by the joint chiefs. the officers in the silos have no choice but to fire, and that can take as little as four minutes. that's why l those retired launch officers stepped forward and said   should never be put in charge of our nuclear arsen. and when you heard from bruce blair, his story is worth remembering. in 1973, bruce was a young military officer wor in an underground bunker in montana. his job was to launch as many as 50 nuclear weapons if the president ever gave the order. then one night in october, as the uni states and the soviet union squared off over an escating conflict in the middle east, the emergency message he had trained for arrived: prepare for nuclear war. like other aman officers in bunkers and submarines and bombers around the world, bruce and his colleagues star the process because that was their duty. they unlocked the safe, they took out the launch codes and the keys and then strapped into their chairs to brace for the shockwaves that would come if a russian warhead detona above them. then they wai for the fin order from the president. thankfully, it never came. but when bruce looks at  , he sees his hair-trigger temper and he thinks about what it felt like inside that bunker that night. as i've said many es, a man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons. <applause> and that brings me to the second question i think voters should ask about both candidates: how do you handle a crisis? we've seen in this campaign that   loses his cool at the slightest provocation, when he's gotten a tough question from a reporter, when he's chlenged in a debate, when he sees a protester at a rly, when he's confron with his own words, so imagine him in the ov office facing a re crisis. imagine his advisers afraid to tell him what he doesn't want to hear, racing against his legendarily short attention span... <laughter> ... to lay out life-and-death choices too complex to be reduced to a single tweet. <applause> and then imagine him plunging us into a war because somebody got under his very thin skin. now, thankfully, he's never been in a position where he had to help make life-and-death decisions for our country, but there was one nation crisis where we did get a good look at how   handles himself.  is a new yorker and his finest moment in this campaign was when he defended new york against  's attacks in a debate. and he invoked the days after 9/11 when new yorkers rely came together to take care of each other. i couldn't agree more. that's why it was so upsetting to learn what  was actuly doing on 9/11. after the world watched with horror as the twin towers fell, he cled in to a new york tv station, and even on that horrible day when thousands of people lost their lives he couldn't stop himself from pointing out that now, because the towers had flen, a building he owned was the tlest in lower manhattan. what kind of person brags at a moment like that? i'll tell you, someone who should never set foot in the ov office and serve as commander in chief. <applause> you know, for me, i take this very personly, my friends, because i was one of new york's senators, ong with chuck schumer, on 9/11. he and i were on the ground the very next day meeting with the governor, the mayor, emergency officis. and i will never forget the site of ground zero. the thick smoke made it hard to breathe or see. some of the firefighters and other first responders we met had been on duty nonstop since the planes hit the towers. they had l lost friends. in a makeshift command center, we were briefed on the damage. and it was clear we were going to need a lot of help to recover new york and we were going to have to rely make it our absolute mission to not only rebuild new york, but to keep ama safe. that's what i did for eight years as a senator. i never stopped fighting to keep our country safer and to ensure that first responders got the medic care they needed. <applause> and i think it's important to reflect on what each of us has done in moments like that, because a lot of the crises that come at a president are not predic, they happen. i'll tell you a quick story. it was after president-elect  asked me to be secretary of state, but before the inauguration, and i got a cl to come to an emergency meeting in the white house in the situation room. and the new  nation security team was on one side of the table and the outgoing  nation security team was on the other side. and the  administration had gotten credible intelligence that there was going to be an attack at our inauguration. so even before we were sworn-in to do our jobs, we were faced with helping to make such a consequenti decision. it rely matters what your experience has been, what your vues are, whether you can be coun on to make that decision. you learn a lot about people in moments like that. and as i sat there with the pressure on, having to think through in my own head how we evua this intelligence, how we did everything we could to preserve our inauguration of our first african-aman president on the ml in washington... <applause> ... we made the decision to go forward. obviously, some of you might have been there. but we so did everything we could to double our efforts to find out about the intelligence and to secure the hundreds of thousands of people who would be there. so you have to ask yourself, in a crisis, who would you trust? who will listen to good advice, keep a level head and make the right cl? because that's the person you want as our president and commander in chief. <applause> now, let's get to the third question for l of the voters to consider about each of us. do you know the difference between our lies and our adversaries? now, this may seem like an easy question. if you got it on an exam, i think you'd be able to answer it. <laughter> but apparently, it's hard for . he has picked fights with our friends. i mean, the president of mexico, the british prime minister, the german chancellor, pretty much the entire nation of japan. <laughter> and he even picked a fight with the pope. <laughter> and at the e e, he is praising tyrants and dictators, like saddam hussein and kim jong-un in north korea and bashar -assad for their supposed strong leadership. he even praised the chinese government for massacring protesters in tienanmen square. <booing>  has repey sugges he would abandon our lies in europe and asia. he's cled nato, quote, "obsolete." obsolete? nato is the greatest military liance in the history of the world. and it's based on something... <applause> it's based on something cled article five which says an attack on one is an attack on l. and article five has only been invoked one e when our lies came to our defense after 9/11. we still have nato lies fighting side-by-side, wor side-by-side with aman troops in afghanistan. they joined us in going after - qaida and bin laden. now, we're supposed to tell them we won't have their back? and by the way, right now our nato lies are helping identify and track terrorists who threaten ama and europe. they're hosting radar and missile defense instlations that protect us against potenti threats from iran and elsewhere. and as our nato forces in afghanistan stand shoulder-to-shoulder with aman troops, they share the risks and burdens. now they're moving into the btic states to deter russian aggression. treating our lies like the sml businesses and contractors that  exploi and stiffed in atlantic city, hanging them out dry, would make our country and our world less safe. <applause> and it would so play right into the hands of russia and china which are envious of our liances and eager to see them weaken and fail. but maybe that's the point, because what's most stri about l of this, and i would argue most important for voters to consider, is the relationship between   and russian president  . as former secretary madeline bright put it, and i quote here, "we have never seen a mind meld of the kind between the russian leadership and a candidate for the presidency of the uni states."  morell, who ran the cia and grew up just a few miles from here, has said that  is manipulating .  is a trained intelligence officer from the old kgb. he knows he can use flattery to get into 's head to make  the kremlin's puppet. and it seems to be wor.  has signed to  that he will let russia do whatever it wants, from ukraine to syria and beyond. he's even said  is a stronger leader than president  . <booing> and it gets worse. the u.s. intelligence community has now confirmed that the russian government, which means , is directing cyberattacks against targets in the uni states to influence the outcome of our election. so ask yourself, why would  be trying to get   elec president? could it be because of l the nice things  has said about him or the fact that he has promised to adopt pro- kremlin policies? or maybe because of the extensive business deings with russian oligarchs with ties to ? now, since  won't release his tax returns, and don't hold your breath... <laughter> ... we don't know the full extent of his business relationships, but what we know is disturbing. and we know this: we are deing with something unpreceden in the history of our country, a foreign adversary trying to influence our presidenti election. that should scare everyone, ,  and independent. and with the election just eight days away, this can't wait any longer.   should immediately disclose l of his ties and connections to the kremlin and its associates. <applause> the aman people deserve to know the full extent of these links and how they relate to what the russians are doing in our election. because when you step back and take it l in, it's no surprise that 50  nation security experts wrote an open letter saying they will not vote for   because he would be, in their words, the most reckless president in aman history. and it's no surprise that not a single former president, secretary of state or nation security adviser from either party has endorsed him. <applause> and it's no surprise that bob , bob  who served eight presidents over 50 years, s and s ike, has said  is, and i quote, "beyond repair, stubbornly uninformed about the world and how to lead our country and government, temperamently unsui to lead our men and women in uniform, unquified and unfit to be commander in chief," unquote. <applause> so i  you and voters across ohio and ama will think about l of these nation security issues when you cast your vote in this election. think about what it takes to lead and how we want to secure the safety of our country, our children and our gchildren and who's best prepared to do that, because, make no mistake, that rely is what's on the blot this year. it's not just my name and  's name, it's our future, our security, our vues. it's who we are as a country.   has a dark and divisive vision for ama that could tear our country apart. but the good news is there's another vision for ama. instead of dark and divisive, it's ful and inclusive and opistic and unifying. <applause> and it is big-hear, not sml-minded. it is about lifting people up, not tearing each other down. <applause> it is a vision that says, as i believe in my heart, a vision that says we are stronger together. millions of people across our country are standing up and saying we believe in ama that is great because it is good. that's s, s, independents, because we believe in an ama where women are respec... <applause> ... an ama where veterans are honored, parents are suppor, workers are paid fairly... <applause> ... an ama where marriage is a right and discrimination is wrong... <applause> ... an ama that leads in the world and lives up to our vues, where everyone counts, everyone has a place, where the aman dream is big enough for everyone. this goes way beyond politics and partisanship. we're rely t about what it means to be an aman in the 21st century, about the basic lessons we want to teach boys and girls, our kids and gkids. it turns out if you dig deep enough through l the mud of politics, eventuly you hit something hard and true, a foundation of fundament vues that unite us as amans... <applause> ... basic beliefs about equity and opportunity and freedom and common decency. that is something to defend and build on. and in the end, that is what this election is l about. and here in ohio, you can make the difference. early voting has ready begun, so now is the e. <applause> every phone cl you make, every door you knock on moves us forward. you can go to .com and volunteer. you can text "join" to 47246 to do the e. you know, somees if you've studied history, you know the fate of the greatest nations comes down to single moments in e. this is one of those make-or-break moments for the uni states. <applause> and it truly is in your hands, as it should be. so when your kids and gkids ask what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, i  you'll be able to say i vo for a better, stronger, fairer ama, a place where our future will be crea and char by people who have confidence that the best days of ama are still ahead of us, particularly young people, who i believe absolutely should help make that future. <applause> so let's come together, let us make clear that we're going to stand up for an ama that we believe in because that ama believes in us. and we're going to prove once and for l that love s hate! thank you!<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in manchester, new hampshire (sd/24)">
<date:"2016-10-24">
<hassan: well, good afternoon, new hampshire. (applause) it is truly an honor to be here with l of you and to welcome back to new hampshire senator   and secretary  . (applause) as i know they will both tell you, the stakes for this election could not be higher. and that's why it is so important that we elect   and s up and down the ticket on november 8th.  is fighting for our priorities. and as president, she will work to build an economy that works for everyone, not just those on the top. here in new hampshire, we've shown that it's possible to work across party lines to get things done. we banced two budgets without a ses or an income tax. we're ta a comprehensive, hands-on approach to our heroin and opioid crisis. we froze in-state tuition at our universities and we lowered it at community colleges. (applause) and i think you'll l agree with me that it is long past e for washington to take the e approach. i'm running for the uni states senate because -- thank you. (applause) i'm running because i want to see a future where everyone who works hard has an opportunity to get ahead and stay ahead, where our middle class is growing and thriving and where l parents can once again feel confident that their children will have a better future. and i know that this is the vision   will fight for as president. (applause) but this vision stands in stark contrast to what we've seen from senator  in washington. throughout her e in washington, senator  has put her corporate speci interest backers before the people of new hampshire, including voting with the koch brothers nearly 90 percent of the e in her first four years in office. and for months senator  stood by  , reiterating her support for him at least 35 es and even saying he should absolutely be a role model for our children, despite -- despite his anti-woman comments and behavior. now senator  has made the politic cculation to try to distance herself from , reizing that the politic wind has shif. that's not leadership. senator  is loo out for her own politic interests, not loo out for the people of new hampshire. i'm ready to change l that but i need your help. (applause) we need to put in the work to get out every last vote, every last vote for a future with more good paying jobs and innovative companies, a future where higher education is affordable for everyone, a future where we have turned the tide of climate change, a future -- a future where a woman's right to make her own heth care decisions is no longer under attack... (applause) ... and a future where hard-wor families finly come before corporate speci interests in washington. that's what this election is about. so i have to ask l of you, are you ready to do what it takes to win? (applause) are you ready to knock on more doors? (applause) are you ready to make more cls? (applause) are you ready to put in the work that's going to -- it's going to take to win this election?(applause)>
<hassan: folks, 14 days and a wake-up: there are going to be long days and nights ahead. but that's never stopped us before and it won't stop us now. i know we will stand together to fight for the priorities that make our state strong because that's what we do. that's new hampshire. we can't let up now. let's keep new hampshire moving in the right direction. thank you and onward to victory on november 8th! (applause) thank you, thank you. and now it is my honor and pleasure to introduce senator  . (applause) throughout her e in the uni states senate and long before, senator  has been a true champion for ama's middle class families. from wor to low students to refinance their loans and make college more affordable to protecting retirement security and strengthening consumer protections, senator  is fighting to insure that l amans who work hard have the opportunity to get ahead and stay ahead. so please join me in a warm new hampshire welcome for senator  . (applause)>
<: wow! hello new hampshire. hello. (applause) oh man i love coming to new hampshire. you know this is like getting to hang out with your next door neighbors. it's true, it's true. we've got maura hey and catherine clark here from massachusetts. (applause) hanging out with our neighbors. you know i've been traveling l around the country for   and for our senate candidates. i've been to missouri and ohio and wisconsin and colorado and pennsylvania and i've got to say, it is good to be in a place where i can say, go pats! (applause) go pats! l right. it rely is great to be in new hampshire. it is great to be in the home state of my dear friend and your senior senator jeanne shaheen. (applause) it is great to be in the state that is going to send carol shea- porter and annie kuster to the uni states congress. (applause) it is great to be in the state that's going to elect colin van ostern as its next governor. (applause) it's great to be in the state that is going to send maggie hassan to the uni states senate. yeah! (applause) oh and just one more. it is great to be in the state that's going to send   to the white house. (applause) yeah! yeah! that's why we're here. so i just want to be offici here. i'm with her. are you with her? (applause) look we're here today with someone who gets up every single day and fights for us. someone who has spent her life fighting for children, spent her life fighting for women, spent her life fighting for families, fighting for heth care, fighting for n rights, fighting for a level playing field, fighting for those who need us most.   fights for us. it is now e for us to fight for . (applause) now i want to tk for just a minute about vues. i grew up in a family that didn't have much. my daddy sold fencing and carpeting, ended up as a maintenance man. after he had a heart attack my mom worked a minimum wage job at sears to keep our family above water. l three of my brothers went into the military. me? i just wan to be a teacher. l my life i wan to be a teacher. can we hear it for ama's teachers?(applause)>
<: yeah! now, i had the cling early on. i used to line up my dollies and teach school. it was tough being one of my dollies. i don't think you did your homework last night. it was tough, it was tough. my parents would have given me anything they could. but they just didn't have the money to send me to college. and the only way i could get to be a teacher, i ended up at a commuter college that cost $50 a semester. and it opened a million doors for me. the way i see it, i am the daughter of a maintenance man who ended up as a uni states senator. (applause)   is the daughter of a factory worker -- gdaughter of a factory worker. and she's going to be elec president. we believe in that ama! that is the ama we fight for! (applause) we believe, but we are worried. worried that those opportunities are slipping away. in fact, a lot of ama is worried. worried and angry. angry that far too often washington works for those at the top and leaves everyone else behind. you know, for 30 years now s have pushed tle-down economics. and they've done one thing: they've help the rich and powerful get richer and more powerful. and they've stepped on the faces of everyone else who's trying to get a fighting chance to succeed. you know,   tks a big game about how the game is rigged. let's be clear:   is right, the game is rigged. it's rigged for guys like  . (booing) and i say it's e to fight back. maggie says it's e to fight back.  says it's e to fight back. (applause) we start our fight right here on college campuses. education builds opportunities. but not if people are getting crushed by student loan debt. right now it's a one-two punch: the high cost of college and the high cost of student loans. the feder government is ma ions of dollars in profits off the backs of our students. it is obscene to make money off people who're trying to get an education. (applause) but i want to be clear on this. we know where   stands. she vo against refinancing your student loans. (booing) and  , we know where he stands, too, on higher education. you know, colleges need more money to bring down the cost of tuition. his plan is to get rid of l feder student loans, abolish the whole department of education. i think his plan is to set up another fake university, cut out the middleman and cheat the students directly himself. that's why we fight back. that's why we fight back. (applause) look, college one is reason enough to get out and vote. it is reason enough to get out and volunteer.  and maggie and i are determined to make debt-free college the law of this land. that's where we want to go (ph). (applause) we are determined to refinance that $1.3 trillion in student loan debt. yes. help us do that. help elect  and maggie so that we can make college a pathway of opportunity, not just for rich kids, but for l of our kids. yeah! (applause) look, we want to build an ama that's gonna work. but that isn't going to happen with  .   cheered on the 2008 financi crash so he could scoop up re estate on the cheap. he stiffed sml-business owners, plumbers and painters and construction workers, when he built his casino and gold courses. and   disrespects -- aggressively disrespects -- more than hf the n beings in this country. he thinks that because he has money, that he can cl women fat pigs and bimbos. he thinks because he is a celebrity, that he can rate women's bodies from 1 to 10. he thinks that because he has a mouth full of tic-tacs, that he can force himself on any woman within groping distance. (booing) well, i've got news for you,  . women have had it with guys like you. (applause) and nasty women have rely had it with guys like you.(applause)>
<: yeah! get this, . nasty women are tough. nasty women are smart. and nasty women vote. (applause) and on november 8th, we nasty women are going to march our nasty feet to cast our nasty votes to get you out of our lives forever. (applause) now... (applause) you bet. yes. you know, for more than a year, that little  has made headlines most every day. and where has senator   been?   cled latinos rapists and murderers.  stuck with him.  cled african-amans thugs and  stuck with him.  attacked a gold star family and  stuck with him.  compared himself to dictators and praised   and  stuck with him.  even attacked   and cled her weak and  stuck with him. (laughter) during a debate a couple of weeks ago, when she cled   a role model for kids -- you want to -- you just can't believe this. but now  's not doing so well and  is running as fast as she can away from him. well, i will say one thing,   sure has made   dance. day one she loves him; day two, she hates him; day three, she's back with him. boy, spins 'round and 'round. but one of the things i love about the people from new hampshire is that you vue guts. you make the right decision and then you stick with it.   is right.  is weak. and that's why a tough, smart fighter like governor maggie hassan is going to win on november 8th. (applause) yes. i love being here with smart, tough women, with , with maggie, with carol (ph), with annie (ph) and with friends of women -- colin (ph). you know, just look at 's history. she's been on the receiving end of one terrible right-wing attack after another for 25 years. but she has never backed down. (applause) she doesn't wine. she doesn't run to twitter at 3 am to cl her opponents losers or dummies. she doesn't even cry that the election is rigged. no,  is the kind who just gets up every day and she keeps on fighting, fighting for children, fighting for women, fighting for families, fighting for heth care, fighting for n rights, fighting for (inaudible)... (applause) ...  (inaudible). (applause) l right. so we're with her. there are two things we got to do. first one, we got to vote. new hampshire has e-day registration at your polling locations so no excuses, anybody. go to iwillvote.com. make a plan now, how you're cast your vote and cast your vote for annie (ph), for carol (ph), for colin (ph), for maggie and for . you going to do that? (applause) second: do more than vote -- volunteer. we need you in this. democracy needs you in this. you can knock on doors, you can make phone cls, you can monitor the polls -- lawyers can help us here. everybody, if you have any e over the next 15 days, please volunteer. you can go to .com. you can go to maggiehassan.com. and i guarantee we will use your e. and we will use it well. please, make this investment in democracy. get out there and volunteer. we need you on this. yes. (applause) ok. so it is so good for l of us to be here. this is -- this is fabulous.>
<: you know, the way i see it, what elections are about, is they ulately come down to our vues. it's not about one person or one candidate. it's about a movement. it's about a strong, powerful movement to make re change in this country, the kind of change that we make together. and since we're here together, let us remind ourselves why we get up in the morning, why we work hard l day and why we're still wor late at night, because of what we believe. we believe that every person should be able to get a college education without getting crushed by student loan debt, and that means refinancing our student loans and debt-free college. yes! (applause) we believe that no one should work full e and live in poverty, and that means raising the minimum wage and we will fight for it. (applause) we believe that workers should be able to organize for better pay, for better wor conditions. unions built ama's middle class and unions will rebuild ama's middle class. yes! (applause) we believe that after a lifee of hard work, people are entitled to retire with dignity, and that means protecting and expanding soci security and we will do it. (applause) you know, you may have heard. wells fargo chea tens of thousands of people. giant banks brought down our economy. well, we believe in tough rules, re accountability, and if a ceo breaks the law, they ought to go to jail just like anyone else. (applause) some beliefs are controversi, so i want to throw this one out there. we believe in science. (applause) we believe that climate change is re and that we have a mor obligation to protect this earth for our children and our gchildren and our gchildren's gchildren. yes! (applause) boy, and i can't believe i have to say this in 2016. we believe in equ pay for equ work and a woman's right to decisions about her own body. yes! (applause) we believe that equ means equ, and that's true in marriage, it's true in the workplace, it's true for every place. and we will fight for equity for l of our people. (applause) you know,   cls african-amans thugs, he cls muslims terrorists, he cls latinos crimins, he brags about sexuly assaulting women. well, we believe that racism and sexism and bigotry have no place in our country. we believe that black lives matter and that we won't build  's stupid wl. we believe diversity makes us strong. yes! (applause) you do know i can do this l day. (laughter) but we got a great speaker here, so i'm going to do one more and then i'm going to quit. we believe that millionaires and ionaires and giant corporations should not be able to buy our elections and our politicians. corporations are not people. we will overturn citizens uni and bring democracy back to the people. yes! (applause) this is 's agenda, this is maggie's agenda, this is colin and annie and carol's agenda. it is a progressive agenda, it is a new hampshire agenda, it is an aman agenda. (applause)  is ready to fight for us. are you ready to fight for ? (applause) then let's welcome to the stage  , our next president of the uni states.(applause)>
<:> thank you. <applause> thank you, wow. well, i don't know about you, but i could listen to  go on l day. <applause> it is so great being here back in new hampshire. <applause> i have a significant unruly group of women i went to wellesley with back here. <applause> oh, and it's wonderful to be on this college campus and to see so many young people here. as maggie and  and i were w out to the stage, a lot of folks were hanging out of the windows. and we're glad that you've got the best view of what we're doing here. it's so exciting to be here with two weeks left because this is the most consequenti election of our lifee. and to see the energy and the enthusiasm that this crowd displays -- i saw it yesterday in north carolina, i saw it the day before in ohio. it rely does demonstrate that amans are loo at what's at stake and are coming to the conclusion that we l have to be involved, involved in the remaining days of the campaign and that everyone needs to turn out to vote. and here in new hampshire, you have a lot of reasons to vote. you've got great candidates for the congress. annie kuster and carol shea porter, who deserve your support. <applause> and you've got a great candidate for governor, colin van ostern. thank you. <applause> i know that -- you know, maggie and  and i have been out here giving the full dose, but i  you will so make sure people know what's at stake in the governor's race and in sending these two extraordinary women to the house. and boy, it is exciting to be here with maggie and  because they are people who fight for you every single day. i know both of these women and it is a privilege to be on this stage with them. now,   has a track record of ma it her mission to stand up against wl street. and she's going to make sure that wl street never wrecks main street again. <applause> but you may not know that she was the person behind setting up the agency that protects consumers, the consumer financi protection bureau. and it was set up to stand against and do something about the kinds of fraud and abuse we've seen from wells fargo. and they are on the front lines of returning ions of dollars to amans who have been chea and defrauded by big companies, by banks and others. <applause> you know, in fact, i think it's fair to say some of the best tv that you can see is on c-span when  is going after a bank executive or a regulator. <applause> she's refusing to let them off the hook, and she's not just spea for herself, is she?
<audience: no!>
<:> she is spea for every single aman who is frustra and fed up, and i am so loo forward to wor with her to rewrite the rules of our economy to make sure we both grow it and make it fairer for every single person wor hard here in ama. <applause> i don't know -- we're up here without our phones, so we can't check tweets, but... <laughter> i kind of expect if  heard what she just said, he's tweeting away. she gets under his thin skin like nobody else. <applause> whether she's cling him out about his mysterious tax returns, she exposes him for what he is -- temperamently unfit and totly unquified to be president of the uni states. <applause> and maggie is going to be a great uni states senator for new hampshire.<applause>
<:> you know, you don't have to take my word or 's word. look at what she has ready done. under maggie's leadership, new hampshire has the lowest unemployment rate in the entire country. <applause> during her governorship, it was ranked as the best state in the country for business. and she's done it the new hampshire way. she has brought people together; s, s and independents. i think she has the biggest legislature, probably in the world, that she has to de with. so she has rely honed her skills about listening and then trying to work with people. and she's taken on issues that rely do keep families up at night, from the skyrocketing costs of college and prescription drugs, to helping students figure out ways to afford to get their education, to helping those suffering from addiction or ment heth, to raising wages for hard-wor families. what i love about maggie is that she is independent, she knows how to find common ground and how to stand her ground, and that is exactly the kind of leader we need in the uni states senate. <applause> because we've got to break through the gridlock and the dysfunction that has unfortunately marred washington. we have got to get back to listening respectfully. we can disagree without being disagreeable. and that's why we need leaders like maggie. and unlike her opponent, she has never been afraid to stand up to  . <applause> she knows he shouldn't be a role model for our kids or for anybody else, for that matter. so i  in these next 14 days you do everything you can to support her. and i want to say a word about colin, who i have so known for a number of years now. and maggie is leaving some big shoes -- she doesn't look like it, but she is. she's leaving some big shoes to fill as governor. and colin is the person for that job. you know, as a member of the executive council, and i remember this because it took a lot of guts, he helped lead the fight to protect funding for planned parenthood in new hampshire. <applause> against his opponent, by the way. and he has shown that he will stand up for women's heth 100 percent of the e, not just when it's politicly convenient. he so worked with maggie to cross party lines to help expand medicaid to more than 50,000 granite staters. <applause> and colin wants to do more to invest in clean energy, like wind and solar, to hold down energy costs, to create more good jobs here in new hampshire and to protect the beautiful environment of this state. and he will fight to put into action the promise of higher education within reach for more families. so please, during these next days, make sure you're doing everything you can for colin, for carol and for annie. <applause> now, did anybody see the last debate?
<audience: yeah! (applause)>
<:> you know, i stood next to   in three debates for four and a hf hours, proving once again that i have the stamina to be president. <applause> i tried to use the e i had in l three to tk about what people tk to me about, starting here in new hampshire and going across the country, because i take it rely seriously. i think the problems that keep you up at night, that stand in the way of your getting ahead and staying ahead, of providing the best opportunity of a good middle-class job with a rising income for you and your kids, those are the problems that someone running for president should actuly listen to, pay attention to and come up with solutions for. <applause> so you know, i do have a lot of plans. i do. and i get criticized for having so many plans.   and i have actuly written a book -- oh, there's one copy right there. it's cled -- oh, another copy. it's cled "stronger together" and we lay out l of our plans for what we want to do if we're so honored as to be president and vice president.
<:> and you know, i do have this old fashioned idea that if i'm here as for your vote to be your president, i should tell you what i'm going to do. and -- and maybe, as i said yesterday in north carolina, maybe it is a bit of a woman's thing because we make lists. <laughter> we do. we make lists. and we try to write down what we're supposed to do and them cross them off as we go through the day and the week. and so i want you to think about our plans as our lists, our list as a country. we are going to get the economy wor for everybody, not just those at the top. we are going to make college affordable. we are going to lower prescription drug costs. and we're going to do everything we can to keep faith with what we have said we're going to do. what a novel idea. we're actuly going to try to deliver results for you. <applause> but i got to tell you, during that debate,  said something -- well, he said a lot of things that were troubling. but he said something truly horrifying. he became the first person running for president,  or , who refused to say that he would respect the results of this election. now that is a direct threat to our democracy. i'm not going to try to cl it anything else because that's what it is. l this tk about the election being rigged, trying to stir up people who are supporting him at his rlies, that is a direct threat to our democracy. and i got to tell you, as your secretary of state, i went to 112 countries. and i went to countries where people were jailed for being politic opponents, where they were exiled, where they were killed. i take this rely seriously. and for me, the peaceful transfer of power is one of the things that makes our country great, something that... <applause> ... something we can't lose, something we shouldn't even doubt. we cannot give into cynicism. and i don't think we are. i'll tell you what's exciting to me is, across this country, at the very moment when   is ma this unpreceden attack on our fundament vues, our institutions, millions of people are standing up for democracy, registering, volunteering, voting early. <applause> so when you get a little discouraged or you get frustra by what you see in this campaign, think of this: we have just reached a historic milestone. more than 200 million amans are now registered to vote. <applause> and most exciting, that includes more than 50 million young people, the biggest number ever. <applause> now you only see numbers like this when people are standing up for what they believe in. and i'm proud to see amans coming together, s, s, independents, to reject hate and division. and you know, we're seeing that in new hampshire, too. we are more than our disagreements, we amans. there is so much more that unites us than divides us. i'm proud to have the support of more than 150  leaders in this state, who put country before party. <applause> but this energy we're seeing is not just because of what we're against, as important as that is. it's because what we're for. it's about fighting for a future where everyone counts, where everyone has a place and no one is left out or left behind, because to me -- and i  to you as well -- this is about more than winning an election. it's about the kind of country we want for our kids and our gkids. that's what this has to be about.<applause>
<:> it's about the lessons we want to pass on to our sons and our daughters. you know, we believe we should honor the men and women who fight for our country and that ama is safer when we work with our lies to lead the world with strength and intelligence. yet, my opponent attacked a grieving gold star family whose son died in iraq. he has no plan to defeat isis, and just last night, he twee that the new effort underway to push the terrorists out of the key city of mosul is ready, and i quote, "a tot disaster" and that our country is, quote, "loo so dumb." <booing> imagine. imagine. you know, this is a guy who says he knows more about isis than the geners. i don't think so. he's basicly declaring defeat before the battle has even star. he's proving to the world what it means to have an unquified commander-in-chief. it's not only wrong, it's dangerous and it needs to be repudia on november 8th here in new hampshire and across ama. <applause> but just in case you think that this is new for , it shouldn't surprise you or surprise anybody else and i'll tell you why. he has been denigrating ama for decades. it star before he ran against me, it star before president  took office. in fact, back in 1987, he spent $100,000 on an ad in the new york es criticizing president reagan. he said, and i quote, "the world is laughing at ama." does that sound familiar? this is someone who roots for failure and takes glee in moc our country no matter who our president is. now, that may be who   is, but this election is about who we are and i want us -- i want us to remember ama is great because ama is good. right? <applause> and as our wonderful first lady   said right here in new hampshire, when they go low, we go high. <applause> this election poses a very clear choice on the economy. when the middle class thrives, ama thrives. as  said, she is a perfect example of how that works in ama. so am i. so are every one of you here. that's what i want for every single person, especily young person, in ama. with your help, we're going to not only have  back in the senate, but send maggie, send carol, send annie and then make the biggest investment in new jobs since world war ii. <applause> what does that mean? that means jobs and infrastructure; our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our mass transit, our water system. there's a lot of great work to be done here. and guess what? those are jobs that can't be expor, they've got to be done right here in new hampshire and across ama. <applause> i want us to invest in advanced manufacturing, and there are, i know, a lot of skeptics about that. they say, well, we can't compete in manufacturing any more. well, i'll tell you what. i don't want us competing with low wage jobs, i want us competing for the high wage jobs. germany is a major exporter of advanced manufacturing products. i want to compete with germany and countries like that; precision machining, 3d printing. <applause> i want us to invest more in technology, innovation and research, and yes, in clean energy because we're going to make ama a clean energy super power of the 21st century. <applause> i think we can deploy a hf a ion more solar panels within the first four years and enough clean energy to power every home by the end of 10 years. that's what i want people to be wor on and thin about and striving to achieve.<applause>
<:> and i am rely exci about what we can do to make sure every young aman is prepared. i want to start in the early years of life in early education, univers pre-k, i want kids to be prepared to succeed... <applause> ... because we are in a competition. and you know what? i want us to step up and compete and win. and i want our schools, i want kids to have good teachers and good schools in every zip code. and i want to be a good partner with our teachers and our educators here in new hampshire. <applause> and i want to bring back technic education to high school. i think we rely -- we rely shut the door on too many young people, who could have gotten skills that would have given them the chance to get ahead. and wor with our community colleges, we need to make sure that every young person and every person coming back to upgrade or change skills can go to a community college. and, yes, we are going to make four-year college affordable. you know, just this week, a new report came out, showing that new hampshire students have very high levels of debt. and i know maggie has been fighting that. and she's had a moratorium and she's done what she could at the state level. but we got to work together at the nation level to make this happen for students in new hampshire, families in new hampshire. <applause> so after our primary was over and -- you know what, i was rely proud. i was rely proud of the campaign that   and i ran. and it was a -- it was a campaign... <applause> ... it was a campaign about ideas, not insults. and that's what campaigns should be about. and after it was over,  and i got together, we put our heads together and we came up with a plan to make public colleges and universities tuition-free for any families ma less than $125,000 a year. <applause> and if you make more than that, it will be debt-free. in other words, pay what you can. but let's not have kids and families going into debt to get an education. this should be an investment that we make on behf of them and our country's future. <applause> and no matter where you go, to a great school like this or anywhere else, we will help you pay down your student debt. we'll make it easier because we're going to make it as a percentage of your income so you're never on the hook for more than you can afford. and if you're interes to see how much you and your family could save, you can actuly go to .com/cculator to see how much you can save under this plan that we are proposing. <applause> now i think in addition to growing the economy, we need to do a lot more on sml business. two-thirds of new jobs will come from sml business. so we're going to be just focused on how we make it possible to start and grow your sml business. and then we do -- we do have to make the economy fair. and that starts with raising the nation minimum wage because if you work full-e, i'm t about full-e workers, you shouldn't still be in poverty at the end. work should provide a ladder of opportunity for people willing to work for it to climb. right? <applause> and we are going to guarantee equ pay. we are going to make affordable childcare so nobody pays more than 10 percent of your income for childcare. we're going to work for paid family leave because this is the way families are today. you know, we're not living in the 1950s. families are under new stresses and strains. and i meet so many who are rely just at the edge. they are ma l they can make, one parent wor full-e, two parents wor full-e, somees part-e on top of full-e. and the other day,   and i were in pittsburgh. and there was a long line of people, a big overflow, which, you know, we couldn't get into the main room where we were. so  was t to the families there and there was a woman there holding her 3-year-old child, a daughter, i think. and you know,  was sha hands and the woman looked, he said, i -- she said, i came here, hoping i could tell you or secretary  that i had my baby three years ago. and the day after i had my baby, i was fired because i cled and asked if i could have a few weeks because it had been a difficult pregnancy and my baby was fine but not l that she needed to be. i got fired. and  came in. and you know, he's such a wonderful man, what a fine, fine n being.<applause>
<:> and he said to me, you know, "there are reasons every day why i get so motiva in this election. and i just -- i just have another reason." and he told me that story. i think your president should care about that. i think your president should wake up every day thin, ok, how do i help empower people to make the most out of their own lives? you know, how do i knock down the barriers that give you the chance to go as far as your hard work and tent will take you? and then somees people say, "well, how are you going to get l this done?" and -- i have proposed plans that do not add a penny to the debt. because i see some of my longe friends who were back in the '92 campaign, and you know when my husband ended up, we had a banced budget and a surplus. <applause> and actuly we were on the way to paying down the nation debt. but here's what happened: what happened is tickle-down economics came back. so here's what i'm gonna do. we're going to ask the wethy to finly pay their fair share. <applause> we're going to -- we're gonna close the loopholes. we are going to end the fact that millionaires can pay a lower tax rate than a nurse or a teacher or a police officer. we're gonna make big banks pay for the risks they pose to our economy. because  is absolutely right: no -- no bank is too big to fail, and no one should be above the law. <applause> so we're going to enforce that. and contrast that with  . he believes if you give trillions -- and that's trillions with a t -- in tax cuts to the wethy, millionaires, ionaires and corporations, everything will work. well, it will for him. that's tle-down economics on steroids. and he would wipe away the tough new rules that president  imposed on wl street. he would eliminate the consumer financi protection bureau that  did so much to create. <booing> and you know, that was bad enough. but then in the debates we learned he has not paid any income tax for years. <booing> so he hasn't paid a penny to support our military, our veterans, pell grants for kids to get an education, heth or anything else. and his explanation was, well, he lost $1 ion in a year. now, i've pondered this. i've rely pondered this. he actuly said it made him smart not to pay income taxes. but how smart are you to lose $1 ion in a year? <applause> and -- i don't -- has anybody here ever been to a casino? he lost $1 ion running casinos. who does that? i've never heard of anybody. <laughter> so we've got to make it clear that  is not on the side of aman workers or aman families. you know, for l of his tk about putting ama first, he makes his products in at least 12 other countries. he stiffs sml businesses, mom-and-pop contractors who work for him. my dad was a sml-business owner. he worked rely heard. i'm just glad he never got a contract from  . because it was hard work. and people who do that work should be rewarded, not taken advantage of. so we -- we know a lot about how   works. and today -- today we heard yet another story. it's about a maintenance worker at one of his golf courses. this maintenance worker told his coworkers he was gay. and they star harassing him. they used anti-gay slurs to his face. they threw rocks and golf bls at him. his supervisors saw it and did nothing. and it got so bad he wound up in the hospit. finly, he went to the police for help. he couldn't go back to work because he was too scared for his safety. and then he was fired by 's golf club. now, this is a heart-wrenching story on a lot of levels. for starters, it is a painful reminder of the harassment, violence and discrimination that too many lgbt amans still face every day. <applause> and it is deeply disturbing that instead of stepping in to stop the tormentors, 's golf club turned on the vic for coming forward.
<:> if that's how   runs his business, what does that say about how he would run our country? so, my friends, there are lots of reasons, so many, to take this election seriously. but here' what i want you to know. of course, i want you to vote for l of us. but more than that, i want you to vote for yourselves and for your families and for your , for our future together. <applause> because if you believe women and girls should be trea with dignity and respect and that women should be able to make our own heth care decisions and that marriage equity should be protec, and that we have to take on the epidemic of substance abuse disorders and addictions, if you believe in a foreign policy where we work with our lies, not insult them, and achieve common gos toward peace and prosperity, then you have to vote. l of these issues are on the blot this november. and i believe, with l my heart, that we will, after this election, get together to help he the divides that have sprung up and are so painful among us. <applause> so please, register and vote on the e day. go to iwillvote.com to confirm your polling place. come help us these last two weeks. go to .com. sign up to volunteer. take out your phone, text join -- j-o-i-n to 47246. and get everybody you know to come out and vote. i think this election is going to turn on who is motiva to vote. so we need each and every one of you to do everything you can to make it clear to everybody you know that our future is at stake. if you want to be part of a positive, opistic, confident, unifying future, please, come out and vote on november 8th here in new hampshire and prove, once and for l, that love s hate. <applause> thank you l.<title="former secretary of state  rodham ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at the 49th annu sute to labor">
<date:"2016-09-05">
<:> hello. <applause> wow. thank you l. <applause> thank you. thank you so much. and it's wonderful to be back. i had such a good e last year. i said put that back on my cendar for labor day; i want to be on the banks of the mississippi with friends from illinois and iowa t about how we're going to make this economy work for everybody, not just those at the top. and it gives me such a great sense of re privilege and honor to be up on this stage with the people you see before you. starting with my friend and former colleague, the great senator from illinois, dick durbin, who has been in so many ways the conscience of the uni states senate. you heard him say he comes from a union family. he knows what hard work is. he stands up every day in that senate. i  you get a chance to watch him on c-span somee. because he carries such passion and conviction in his voice about everything that he's fighting for. so thank to our friends from illinois for sending dick durbin to the senate for l the years and for however long he wants to be there. and please, be sure he is joined by tammy duckworth as your next senator. <applause> dick -- dick reminded me that i endorsed tammy here last year. i was loo for the fight occasion to do that. and i figured right here in her state would be the perfect opportunity. i just can't tell you how much i admire this brave woman. and she's going to bring so much to the senate, to our nation debate about issues that are critic to ama's future. so please do everything you can to make sure that tammy is in the senate. <applause> and let me so recognize and thank your congresswoman. cheri bustos, thank you. <applause> cheri has ready made a great impression in the congress. and she is wor hard every day. she's another keeper. she's somebody who will only do more and more as she is there longer and has the chance to rely make things happen for her constituents. i so want to recognize my friend, congressman dave loebsack, from across the river, who was here earlier. <applause> i don't think i need to remind everybody from iowa, but please turn out and vote not only for dave, but vote for s. vote for patty judge for senate. vote for other s for congress. <applause> and it's a thrill to be here with three great union leaders, people who i admire and rely appreciate the chance to work with, and look forward to wor with as president: the uaw president, internation,  williams; ibew, internation president lonnie stephenson; and of course, president of the nea for the educators, lily eskelsen. <applause> now, each of these leaders are pretty speci people, and i think you know doug was pretty happy that they're here. he told me, "we've got three internation presidents here." and i said knowing these three, they're happy to be here. this is not some kind of labor day obligation. they are with their members. they're wor on behf not only of those in the union, but we know, it was just proven again last week, that unions not only raise incomes and provide efits for union members, but because of unions, everybody is better off. and that's a message i'm going to tk about every single day in this campaign. <applause> now, this is such a beautiful day, and you l came out here to celebrate labor day with l of us. and i am thrilled that i have a chance to just say a few words. i rely believe we are stronger together. that was the theme of our convention. and coming out tomorrow,   and i have a book cled "stronger together." and i'll tell you why we did this book. i think if you run for president, you ought to tell people what you want to do. right? <applause> and what i've tried to do in this book, and it's so great having senator  by my side now, is to lay out a blueprint for ama's future. how are we going to get more good jobs? infrastructure jobs, advanced manufacturing jobs, clean renewable energy jobs, how are we going to make sure that the economy not only is growing and producing more jobs with rising incomes but is being fair? so that people are trea fairly. that's why we support, we support raising the nation minimum wage so that you're not living in poverty when you work full e. <applause> my opponent thinks wages are too high. i don't know who he tks to, but he actuly says that and he doesn't believe in raising the nation minimum wage. i so believe in doing more to support sml businesses. my dad was a sml businessman, i believe that we need to do everything we can to help sml businesses succeed.   and i were together in cleveland earlier, we tked about that. 's dad ran a union shop, iron workers. and he's proud of that. that he had a sml business father who ran a union shop and employed union workers providing good products. i so believe that we have to go finly guarantee equ pay for women's work. <applause> and that's because i believe in fairness. i don't want to see anybody trea unfairly and discrimina against. i don't care who you are, if you're willing to work and do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead. that is the basic bargain of ama. so if you look at this book, which i  you will, it stands in stark contrast to  . he says, i one can fix it. now, the folks i have met during this campaign and for many years before, know that we have chlenges, know we've got to come together and believe we have to work together to fix what our problems are, that's my view. i want us to bring people together just the way unions do, just the way people in communities do. and here in the quad cities and across the country, we can see proof every day that we have to come together to meet our chlenges. so i'm going to continue to emphasize that we want to be the uniters in this campaign. we believe that ama is ready great and that we can become greater if we do our part. <applause> when somebody says, i one can fix it, think of the people he's leaving out, everybody else. leaving out our troops on the front lines, leaving out firefighters and police officers who run toward danger, leaving our teachers and educators who do they best to change children's lives. leaving out everybody else. that is his campaign in a nutshell and what we've got to do in the next 63 days is to present the vision of ama we believe in. so we're going to continue to say, we're stronger together, we're going to work together, we're going to run a campaign of issues, not insults. and we are going to be absolutely strong in our support for unions, because we know... <applause> nobody gets through life one. unions help build the largest middle-class in the history of the world in our country. they fought for fair wages, safe wor conditions. they've helped so many people get on that run to the middle-class. and their kids, like dick durbin, go even higher. so i am going to say no to a tax on unions. i am going to say no to rolling back collective bargaining. i am going to say no to unfair trade des, like the tpp. i'm going to say no... <applause> no to pension cuts that deny you the secure retirement that you have worked for, and i'm going to say no to right to work. it's not right for workers, and it is not right for ama. <applause> but i will say yes to the aman dream and here's what i believe. the aman dream is big enough for l of us. if we build it, we will expand it and create more opportunities. and as we run this campaign on issues, our most important -- our most important go is getting the economy to work for everybody. there's nothing -- nothing more important. and how do you do that? by creating more jobs and what are some of the areas that i think we can rely emphasize? infrastructure. our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports. <applause> so, what we can't see, our water systems, our sewer systems. we so need a new electric grid, a modern electric grid to be able to take and distribute clean, renewable energy. i have a go for us to instl a hf a ion more solar panels by the end of my first term. <applause> it takes a lot of -- a lot of jobs, a lot of people wor to do that. and then enough clean energy to power every home by the end of my second term. <applause> i so want to finish the work of broadband interconnectivity, we have places in our country that still have di-up. we have places where kids can't do the homework assignments their teachers give them because they don't have access to the internet. that is so unfair. think of l the jobs we'll create when we finish that off. and then let's look at advanced manufacturing. i believe we can compete with anybody if we put our minds to it, and i'm going to have a manufacturing renaissance policy that will put people to work. <applause> i -- i am so proud that  and lonnie are here because they've been doing so much to rely create the new industries and autos and what the ibew does in so many important areas of our economy. i want to be your partner. and i think it's especily important to recognize that when the chips were down and the auto industry was on its back, president  did the right thing. he saved the aman auto industry. <applause> i suppor him then and i support him just as strongly now. the aman auto industry just had the best year it's had in a long e and that was because of the teamwork and the partnership that we had between the companies. between the union and because the president of the uni states knew we had to save the auto industry.   basicly said, he didn't care, didn't matter to him. it just shows you how he doesn't understand or care about the re jobs that put bread on the table and give people a sense of purpose and dignity. well you won't have to look far to find me in the ov office, if i'm fortunate enough to be your president, and to do everything i can, every single day to create more jobs, to save jobs, to bring jobs back from overseas. <applause> and if you contrast that with , his track record -- his track record is just the opposite. he actuly hired a union busting firm for one of his hotels in las vegas. he built a career out of not paying workers for the work they did. we're t painters, plumbers, electricians, people who thought it was a big de wor for  , one of his resorts, his casinos. he stiffed them. he stiffs sml businesses. like i said, my dad was a sml businessman, he prin drapery fabrics. he'd get an order, he'd buy the materi, he'd get the silk screens made. i would go somees to help him in his print plant. he'd have these long tables, the fabric would be laid out. you would take the silk screen, you'd put it down, you'd pour the paint in, you'd take the squeegee, you'd push it across, you'd lift the screen up, you go l the way down, get on the next table, l the way back. took a lot of e. took a lot of hard work. when he finished, he'd load up the fabrics in his car and he'd go deliver them. i am so happy he never got a contract from  . <applause> i don't know what my family would've done if my dad did business with people like , who has told hundreds and hundreds of sml business, he's been sued 4,000 es for not paying the s that he owes. if my dad had been told, sorry just kidding, we're not paying you -- this is the man who wants to be president of the uni states? this is someone who doesn't even honor contracts? that's what is so dangerous about this election. what   says, what he says about the economy, that he knows how to create jobs. he had six bankruptcies. in one bankruptcy one, 1,000 people lost their jobs. the numbers add up. he tks about wanting to protect jobs in ama but everything he makes, he's made overseas. he could have made suits and ties and furniture in the uni states but no, he made it overseas. he even hires workers from overseas. and he tells people well, he couldn't find amans who wan to work in the heat. you can't make this stuff up, can you? it is truly unbelievable. but what's even worse is what he says about foreign policy. as bad as he is about our economy, he has insul our lies, he has made common cause with dictators, he has basicly endorsed   and his policies. when he says, "i know more about isis than the geners"; when he claims our armed forces are a disaster, or he insults a gold star family, that's not just offensive. that's dangerous. and just today, our intelligence professions said there was credible evidence for them to pursue an investigation into russia's efforts to interfere with our election, hac the  nation comee. and when  was asked about it, didn't deny it. in fact, he said it was probably a good thing it happened. and this is the person that   praises. we saw even more evidence last week that he is temperamently unfit and totly unquified to be president. in just a few hours, he managed to turn his trip to mexico into an embarrassing internation incident. i mean, just look at what happened. he got into a twitter war with <inaudible>. and why? because the president of mexico said, "i told him in the meeting we weren't paying for that wl." <applause> so, not only did  mess up his first internation engagement, he choked. he couldn't even bring himself to tell the president of mexico one of his very few policy demands. i mean, he went back to arizona and gave another hate-filled speech about rounding up and deporting 16 million people. even some of his own advisers are having a hard e explaining that away. so he's going to try to distract and divide. he's going to  that we don't pay attention to what he's been saying for 14, 15 months. and we just tune in now, these last two months, that he's somehow softening his positions; that there's a rely another   out there. well, you've got to ask yourself, if you can't even go to a friendly foreign country without getting into a fight, can this person even claim to have the temperament to be in the ov office and de with re urgent crises? as i've said before, and i'll say it again, a man who can be provoked by a tweet should not be anywhere nuclear weapons. <applause> but we have a lot of work to do. i think every election is close and tight and tough. that's why we have to work as hard as we can between now and when the last votes are coun. and that's why i need your help. i want to get the economy wor for everybody, not just those at the top. i want to be sure that we lead the world with strength and steadiness, and that we protect ama here at home and around the world. and i want to unify our country. i believe with l my heart... <applause> ... that every aman must vote, must vote. i see a woman holding a sign, "you must vote." please, it will make a difference. and then she says "i'm a gold star daughter." <applause> god bless you. god bless you. i spent my life fighting for kids and families. i don't give up. i don't quit. when we didn't get heth care reform, i went to work with s and s. we passed the children's heth insurance program that insures 8 million kids every year. <applause> as dick said, after we were attacked on 9/11, i worked with s and s to make sure we could rebuild new york and the pentagon, and make sure we were as safe as we possibly could be. this election will determine so much about our future. and one thing i know for sure is we have to start listening to and respecting each other again. we may have differences. that's the aman way. but we are stronger together. we can do anything if we put our minds to it. i saw the picture of mother theresa that was being held up here. and i was fortunate to know mother theresa. i was fortunate enough to actuly work with her. we didn't agree on everything, but we found common ground. she asked me when i was first lady to get a home for babies star in washington, so mothers who couldn't care for their babies could take their babies to a safe place and those babies could be adop. <applause> and when mother theresa asked you to do something, the only answer was "yes, ma'am." <laughter> and i star wor. and she would cl me. she'd cl me from india. she'd cl me from vietnam. she cled me from everywhere. she'd say, "where's my home?" <laughter> and i'd say, "well, mother, wor with the washington, d.c. zoning department requires divine intervention." <laughter> and so she did, and we got it done. <applause> here's what i  you will do. i  you will get involved in this campaign for these last two months. i  you will go to .com and see how you can work in illinois, in iowa. i  you will text join -- j-o-i-n, and go to 47246, to see what you can do. we need everybody involved. there has never been a more important consequenti election in our lifees. <applause> and we need to elect progressive leaders like tammy and cheri and dave loebsack and others who are on the blot as well. i am confident and opistic about ama's future. when i listened to  , when i watched his convention, i honestly did not know what country he was t about. it was so dark, so dire, so depressing. that's not the ama i know. it's not the ama that i see. i don't deny that we have problems. of course, we do. we're n beings. but my goodness, would you live anywhere else? <applause> would you give up our freedom, our vues, our opportunity for anywhere else? i traveled to 112 countries as your secretary of state. and everywhere i went, i was so proud to land that plane which said "the uni states of ama" on it, and to come down those stairs and begin to meet on behf of our vues, our interests and our security. and there is not a place, despite what they say, that doesn't envy who we are and what we have. we cannot put any of that at risk my friends. <applause> so for these last two months, join this campaign, help us make history, make sure that we are continuing to be not just great, but even greater. and that we're creating opportunities for the next generation, like my gchildren. that's what we can do together if we remember we are stronger together. god bless you.<title="former secretary of state  rodham ,  presidenti candidate, holds a news conference">
<date:"2016-09-08">
<:> good morning, good morning. good morning, everyone. last night, i was very glad to be able to begin a conversation with the aman people, and offer some of my thoughts about isis, iran, and how we reform the v.a. system to provide better care for our vets. and i'm honored that in the last 24 hours, more retired geners and admirs have decided to endorse my campaign. to focus more on these cruci chlenges, tomorrow i'm convening a meeting of bipartisan nation security leaders and experts, including former secretaries of homeland security,  chertoff and janet napolitano; gener  len; former acting director of the cia  morell; and former nato supreme lied commander james stavridis, and others. we will discuss how to intensify our efforts to defeat isis and keep our country safe. to that end, i want to underscore something that i mentioned last night. we should make it a top priority to hunt down the leader of isis, abu bakr -baghdadi, and bring him to justice just as we did with oa bin laden. as with that operation, getting -baghdadi will require a focused effort driven at the highest levels. but i believe it will send a resounding message that nobody directs or inspires attacks against the uni states and gets away with it. let me be clear: last night was yet another test, and   failed yet again. we saw more evidence that he is temperamently unfit and totly unquified to be commander in chief. he trash-tks aman geners, saying they've been, quote, "reduced to rubble." he sugges he would fire them and replace them with his hand-picked geners. he attacked dozens of former flag officers by saying that, quote, "we've <sic> been losing for us for a long e." that's how he tks about distinguished men and women who have spent their lives serving our country, sacrificing for us. that's how he would act as commander in chief. meanwhile, bizarrely once again, he praised russia's strongman  , even ta the astonishing step of suggesting that he prefers the russian president to our aman president. now, that is not just unpatriotic and insulting to the people of our country, as well as to our commander in chief. it is scary because it suggests he will let  do whatever  wants to do, and then make excuses for him.
<:> i was just thin about l of the presidents that would just be loo at one another in tot astonishment. what would rond reagan say about a  nominee who attacks ama's geners and heaps praise on russia's president? i think we know the answer. and when asked how he would stop the spread of glob terrorism, 's answer was simply "take the oil." the uni states of ama does not invade other countries to plunder and pillage. we don't send our brave men and women around the world to ste oil. and that's not even getting into the absurdity of what it would involve: massive infrastructure, large numbers of troops, many years on the ground. of course,  hasn't thought through any of that. every  holding or see office in this country should be asked if they agree with   about these statements. now, one thing you didn't hear from  last night is any plan to take on isis, one of the biggest threats facing our country. he says his plan is still a secret, but the truth is he simply doesn't have one. and that's not only dangerous. it should be disquifying. so i have a very different vision for how we keep our country safe and strong. i respect the men and women who put their lives on the line to serve ama. i will work with our lies to defeat isis. and i will hold true to our country's most cherished vues. you know, even with l of the attention paid to the campaign, we cannot forget how important this decision is. this weekend is the 15th anniversary of 9/11. i will never forget the horror of that day, but i will never forget either the vics and survivors, and the brave first responders and emergency responders that i met with and served and worked for as senator from new york. that's what kept me wor so hard in the senate on behf of 9/11 families. that's who i was thin of 10 years later in the white house situation room with president  when the decision was made to bring oa bin laden to justice. that's the kind of commander in chief i will be, someone who will bring us together in common purpose to keep our people safe and our country strong.
<question: madam secretary, the latest re clear politics average has you up by an average of 2.8 percentage points over  . given what you say are his historic inadequacies and disquification on the commander in chief point that you just made, shouldn't you just basicly be running away with it at this point? >
<:> well, as i've said many, many es, i've ways thought this was going to be a close election. that's why we've been putting organizations in place, gearing up for these fin weeks, to mobilize and turn out our voters. that's exactly what we're going to do. and i feel we're in a strong position, but we're not ta anyplace, anyone, anything for gran. we're going to keep wor as hard as we can and fully pull out as many voters who agree with me as we possibly can muster. <crosstk>
<:> hi,  <ph>.
<question: you said unequivocly last night that you would not put troops into iraq ever again. isn't, a, that ignoring some ground forces who are there; and b, boxing yourself in should your military commanders, if elec, advise that you in fact need to do that?>
<:> well,  <ph>, first of l, i've said that before. i've said it on numerous occasions. i believe it. i think putting a big contingent of aman ground troops on the ground in iraq and syria would not be in the best interest of the fight against isis and other terrorist groups. in fact, i think it would fulfill one of their dearest wishes, which is to drag the uni states back into a ground war in that region. however, i've been very clear, and i said this again last night, i support the air campaign. i support speci forces. i support enablers. i support surveillance, intelligence and reconnaissance. i will absolutely be prepared to do whatever is necessary to support the arab and kurdish fighters on the ground to take out as much of the infrastructure of isis from the air; to go after baghdadi, as i said today, with a very focused commitment to ta him off the battlefield.
<:> i think the approach i've outlined intensifies what we are doing, but so recognizes that there is no, in my opinion, path forward to ground troops that would be in our interests.
<question: hi, good morning. secretary , you've been criticized by the rnc for your demeanor last night, that you were too serious, that you didn't smile enough. can you react to that? and so you sugges that there is a double standard. do you think that you're trea differently in this race because you're a woman?>
<:> well, i'm going to let l of you ponder that last question. i think there will be a lot of ph.d. theses and popular journism writing on that subject for years to come. i don't take my advice and i don't take anything seriously that comes from the rnc. we were t about serious issues last night. i know the difference between what we have to do to fix the v.a., what we have to do to take the fight to isis, than just ma politic happy tk. and i had a very short window of e in that event last night to convey the seriousness with which i would approach the issues that concern our country.   chose to tk about his deep admiration and support for  . maybe he did it with a smile and i guess the rnc would've liked that.
<question: thank you, madam secretary.>
<:> like the hat.
<question: appreciate that.>
<:> is this a new look?
<question: no, its kind of an old look, now.>
<:> oh, you're bringing it back?
<question: i'm bringing it back.>
<:> went shopping in your closet? 
<question: you got it.>
<:> yeah. i do a lot of that.
<question: last night, mr.  sugges in some of his security briefings that briefers made a suggestion or an insinuation that they were not pleased -- the cia was not pleased with the decisions that the administration and president  have made so far. did you get that e impression in the briefings that you got? and can you comment otherwise on that suggestion from mr. ?>
<:> i think what he said was totly inappropriate and undisciplined. i would never comment on any aspect of an intelligence briefing that i received.
<question: (inaudible) different standard? and what does that mean for you going into the debate?>
<:> that's a very fair question. i -- i have been somewhat heartened by the number of articles recently pointing out the quite disparate treatment of  and his campaign compared to ours. i don't understand the reasons for it. i find it frustrating, but its just part of the landscape that we live in and we just keep forging ahead. look, i -- i think this is a rely important moment for everybody in our country, as you have seen by the numbers of s concerned about  coming forward and saying, "this is not acceptable." they are willing to put their names out there, people who've never endorsed a , people who've never endorsed before because they are so concerned about this man and how totly unquified he is to be president and how totly temperamently unfit he is to be commander in chief. so i know that he says outrageous things on a, you know, pretty regular basis. and i know that's part of the coverage and i know that it may be difficult to feel that you know exactly how to respond to some of his behavior. but we're on the brink of ma a very critic decision for our country. and if i were not the candidate, if i were not the nominee, if i were just a concerned citizen, i'd be out here doing everything i could to sound the arm about someone like   getting anywhere near the white house. and i will continue to do that.
<unknown: thanks, guys.>
<:> well, you could look on the map and find eppo.
<question: madam secretary (inaudible). (laughter)>
<:> i love you, andrea. you are indefatigable. you're my kind of woman, i'll tell you what. look at this. ok. i know. go ahead. i mean the sympathy vote, the whole thing. i love it.
<question: (inaudible)>
<:> yes.
<question: (inaudible)>
<:> matt olsen, right? right.
<question: (inaudible)  .>
<:> right, right.
<question: (inaudible)>
<:> no, that's not true.
<question: (inaudible)>
<:> well, you know, look, i mean the s are just in a terrible dilemma trying to support a totly unquified nominee. i have no sympathy for them. it's their nominee. but i am not going to tolerate them continuing to make misleading, inaccurate accusations and putting out misinformation about me. and here's the latest example. matt olsen, the very distinguished and effective former director of the nation counterterrorism center, was so disturbed by what he has seen coming from the  campaign that he wrote an article that i guess came online in the last 48 hours, pulling from public sources, very clear statements by isis leaders, essentily throwing whatever support they have to  . they have, as matt olsen poin out, said they d that lah delivers ama to . they have said that they  that he is the president because it would give even more motivation to every jihadi, someone who has insul muslims; has insul a gold star family of an incredibly heroic captain khan; someone who has said he doesn't want to let muslims around the world even come to our country. that is a gift for isis, and that is what matt olsen, who knows more about this than the s trying to somehow muddy the waters, very clearly sta. that's what i mean. and look, i'm not as for any speci treatment. i -- i know the road that i'm on. i've been on it for 25 years, and i just get up every day and keep moving forward. i love this country. i will serve it with my entire heart, mind and soul. i will do everything i can to protect ama. and i will do everything i can to make sure   is not president, for many reasons, but this latest information coming from a distinguished counterterrorism expert should put every aman's mind in motion to try to figure out what everyone can do to prevent  from being the president.
<unknown: thanks, everybody.>
<:> thank you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in akron, ohio">
<date:"2016-10-03">
<:> thank you. wow. hello, akron. wow. i am so exci. it's just fabulous being back here again. i am so grateful to l of you. i want to thank your mayor, mayor horrigan. thank you for welcoming me here. i want to thank two great members of congress who fight for akron, fight for cleveland, fight for youngstown, fight for ohio and ama, congresswoman marsha fudge and congressman  . <applause> now i'm pretty exci about being here today. and i was especily honored to receive the endorsement of lebron james. <applause> now i may become president, but he will be  of ohio for as long as there is a . i'm obviously deligh to be endorsed by someone who has demonstra such leadership and such extraordinary ability, but i'll tell you what rely moved me the most is he's given back to his hometown. <applause> he has advoca for sml businesses, for kids, given kids more opportunities. he's spoken out on behf of crimin justice reform. he is someone who uses the platform he has earned because he has worked so hard over so many years to speak out and speak up for those who may not have a voice. so i am truly honored to have his support, and especily, to be able to tell people in his hometown how i am loo forward not just to watch him play basketbl, but to continue to be a leader in so many different ways. now we do -- we do have an important election coming up. <applause> who here is planning to vote? <applause> well, that is very good news because this is the most consequenti election i think in our lifees. the choice could not be clearer, and we need everybody to show up. and how many of you still have to register to be able to vote? everybody here registered? <applause> well, i want you to tk to your friends because the deadline for registering in ohio is october 11th. that's just a little over a week away. and if you are not sure whether or not someone you know is registered, or maybe you yourself want to be absolutely positive, you can go to iwillvote.com. see that sign over there? you can go to iwillvote.com and confirm your registration, and register if you need to. so let's get everybody you know to register and maybe start voting when early voting starts on october 12th. <applause> because we have just 36 days left. thirty-six days. now we are reaching out, we're ma phone cls, we're knoc on doors. if you want to get involved, you can go to my website, .com, sign up to be part of this campaign in the next 36 days. you can text join -- j-o-i-n -- at 47246 and get involved, because we are running to win ohio in this election. <applause>
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> and you know, everybody, everybody in the campaign is criss-crossing ohio. my daughter has been here a bunch. <applause>   and his wonderful wife ann have been here. <applause> my husband is coming back tomorrow for a two-day bus tour through ohio. <applause> and i will be back because we care about ohio and we want to make sure ohio makes the best choice for the future of the people of this great state. <applause> now i'm going to close this campaign the way that i star my career a long e ago, fighting for kids and families, standing up for people who may need a little extra boost in life. ma sure that this country delivers on the promise of the aman dream. see, i believe the aman dream is big enough for everybody. <applause> if you're willing to work for it and do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead in ama. <applause> now, my opponent and i have a rely different view about what it takes to get ahead and stay ahead, and that may be because we have very different life experiences. and you know, that's ok. people have different families, different views of the world. but here's what i have noticed. i have noticed that he ways puts himself first. and maybe that's because he was born into a millionaire family, he star his business with a $14 million loan from his father. his father bailed him out. apparently that's a pattern. you've got to be bailed out when you do business with him. and he then has taken advantage of every single element of our tax code, of our economy that he could. and ong the way -- ong the way he has stiffed people. sml businesses and workers and contractors. and that's part of the reason i take this election so seriously. my dad was a sml businessman. my gfather was a factory worker. and so my dad, when he got out of the navy in world war ii, he star a sml business. he star a printing business. he prin fabrics for draperies. and you know, he worked rely hard. he had a print plant in chicago. no natur light, no windows, just a long room where there were two big long tables and the fabric would be laid out on them. and then if you've ever seen silkscreens, that's what he did. you take the silkscreen, you put it down, you pour the paint in, your take the squeegee, you go across, you lift it up. you go down to the end of one long table, you start on the end of the other long table. and then if it was going to be two colors, you would add another color, doing exactly the e thing. it was before there was machines. my dad couldn't have afforded that anyway. but he worked rely hard and he produced a good middle class life for our family. so when i think about the way that my opponent has taken advantage of people, i've got to tell you, i am rely grateful my dad never got a contract from him. <laughter> because i have met people he stiffed. i have met people. i'm t painters and plumbers. i'm t dishwashers, marble instlers, glass instlers, architects. a man who sold him pianos for one of his casinos. he wouldn't pay them. now you've got to stop and ask yourself, what kind of person does that? somebody who works hard and has a contract which they expect to be honored. and so i met one of the men. i met a man who had a sml family business, instled the glass in one of those casinos. submit the , and  said, no, we're not going to pay it. and the man was stunned. as so many hundreds and hundreds of people have been. and then they come back, the  organization or  himself, and say, ok, we'll give you 10 cents, 20 cents, maybe 30 cents on the dollar. now some of those sml businesses couldn't afford that. they had bought the materi, they had provided the services.  didn't care. he basicly just wked away from them, made them feel like they had failed, even though they had done the work they'd been asked to provide. i've got to tell you, that is not the way we're supposed to do business in ama. and -- and i can't imagine having a president who believes that that's the way you're supposed to treat people. but you're going to help me make sure he never gets near the white house. <applause> 
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> now, earlier today, earlier today in toledo i tked about l of the changes i want to make in how we can protect amans from the kind of corporate fraud that we have seen too much of. now the most recent example is wells fargo. <booing> wells fargo actuly had people, thousands of their employees, putting customers into accounts they either never asked for or they did not understand. and then every e they put somebody into a new account, they got fees, which then gave them the chance to get a bigger bonus. a rely crummy game that hurt people. so thankfully, we have an organization now, the consumer finance protection bureau in washington, that looks out for people who get defrauded like that. <applause> that is an important part of how we are going to protect people and it is run, you may know, by richard cordray from ohio. <applause> now, will it surprise you that   wants to eliminate that agency?
<audience: no!>
<:> well, we're not going to let that happen. that agency has ready recovered $11 ion for consumers who have been taken advantage of by corporations. and the behavior of wells fargo shows clearly that we have got to keep the pressure on these big banks so they can never wreck the economy again the way they did back in 2008. <applause> i have said we are never going to let wl street wreck main street again, and i mean it. contrast that -- contrast that with my opponent. he wants to do away with the rules that have been imposed on wl street. he basicly wants to let wl street, the banks, the hedge funds, l these other institutions basicly do whatever they want again. i tell you what. we are not going to let that happen. we need more rules, not fewer rules on them. <applause> i want us to make it easier to start a sml business, to get rid of the red tape, to make credit available, to make it clear that most new jobs are going to come from sml businesses in ama. so we should have a big, dynamic sml business economy. but we are not going to let big business and big corporations cl the shots anymore. that is not wor for us. <applause> but 's whole economic vision is rely tle-down economics. it's the e idea that has failed us before. you see, he believes that l you do is cut taxes on the wethy, and then it tles down. well, we know that doesn't work. we've been down that road. and what he wants to do is, i think it's fair to say, tle- down on steroids. <laughter> what he has proposed would slash taxes on the wethy. now, i'm a little confused about this because for a long e we've been saying, hey, where are your tax returns? <laughter> a lot of us wondered what he was hiding because you know if it was something that would make him look good, he would put them right out there. <laughter> everybody who has ever run for president in at least the last 40 years has released their tax returns. my husband and i have about 40 years of tax returns out there. you can go and look at them and you can see that, you know, we paid a lot of taxes, and frankly, we were grateful we could. we are grateful for the blessings that we have had over the last 15 years. <applause> so did any of you see the debate last monday? <applause> well, you know, i raised it. i said, well, ok, what is he hiding? maybe he's not as rich as he claims. maybe he is not as charitable as he claims. maybe he doesn't want us to see that he owes hundreds of millions of dollars to foreign banks and foreign lenders. or maybe he hasn't paid any taxes. now shortly after the debate it was discovered that indeed, back in the 1990s, he apparently lost a ion dollars on bad investments and failing casinos. <booing> ask yourself this. who loses money on casinos? <laughter> rely. <applause> and you know, yesterday -- yesterday, some of his supporters said, well, it just shows that he's a genius that he didn't pay any taxes. <laughter> well, what kind of genius loses a ion dollars in the first place? <applause> you know, in the debate he said, not paying taxes made him smart. <booing> but think about what that means. it means that l the rest of us who pay our taxes, right, what's he saying about us? but more than that, zero taxes means zero for our vets, zero for our military, zero for pell grants to send young people to college. zero for heth, zero for education. and you stop and ask yourself, this is the e person who's been going around rely just dumping on ama. he said our military is a disaster. well, he could not be more wrong, but thank goodness the rest of us pay to support our men and women in uniform, who have done so much for us. <applause> today in colorado he claims he brilliantly use the laws to avoid paying taxes. well, that just shows, number one, he is the poster boy -- the poster boy for the e rigged system that he would make even worse. just think about it. he paid zero at least for about 20 years, we believe now, based on what we know. and he is advocating for huge tax cuts that would help him and his family even more. what does he want us to do, pay him to lose money? rely? <applause> but you know...
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> you know, there's a lot more to this story and we are just slowly getting it into the public eye. so we know he stiffed people, didn't pay his s. we know he took bankruptcy, depending on how you count, four or six es. you know that he paid no taxes for probably 20 years. we don't know what his taxes would be after that. he has ways tked about how he can't release his taxes because he is under audit, but he admit everything before 2009 is not under audit. so , release everything up until 2009. show the aman people your taxes. <applause> i'll tell you another thing. if i am -- if i am fortunate enough to be president, we are going to pass a law requiring anybody who is a nominee of a major nation party to have to release their taxes. <applause> so, what did we find out today? well, a story just came out saying that   used chinese steel and uminum for two out of the last three construction projects. so instead of buying his steel and uminum from aman plants here in ohio and pennsylvania, instead of supporting hard-wor families and aman jobs, he once again stiffed us. he sent that money overseas. now he spends a lot of e bashing the chinese, right? you hear that l the e when he tks. well, turns out he bought his steel and uminum from the chinese. and it turns out he owes big money to the chinese. so this is another one of the episodes of his reity television show, where he is saying one thing and doing something else. now for years, china has been undermining aman businesses and workers by illegly dumping cheap uminum and steel into our markets. you know that, right? and it sounds like   has been buying that dumped steel and uminum. how can he make ama great again when he won't even buy aman products in our country? <applause> and i'll tell you, this is person to me because as a senator i went before the internation trade commission on behf of steelworkers in new york who i represen, and as secretary of state i went toe to toe with the chinese. i have put forward an agenda to crack down on trade abuses from countries like china, to stand up for aman workers and to rebuild aman infrastructure with aman materis like steel and uminum. <applause> and today in toledo i poin out, because chrysler just announced an expansion of the plant there for the new jeep wrangler, about 700 more jobs, right? i poin out when the automobile industry was flat on its back and 850,000 workers in ohio could have been absolutely out of a job, more than we can even imagine in terms of a long-lasting impact on the economy here,   said he didn't care. save it, don't save it, didn't matter to him. well, i'll tell you where i stood. i stood in favor of saving the aman automobile industry. <applause> and look what we got. last year our auto industry had the best year they have had in a rely long e, and so we have got to keep building it, we've got to keep ma sure that there are good jobs, and we've got to protect good union jobs against the kind of assault that is coming from l sides. <applause> so now i know that ohio is a tough state. you've got to get out there and you've got to tk to people, answer questions, make your case. that's what we've been doing, that's what we are going to do l the way to the end of this election. but i need your help to tk to anybody you know here who thinks they might be voting for . <booing> i know you know people. i know you do. and you've got to stage an intervention. <applause> you've got to sit them down and point out how everything he says he wants to do is absolutely opposite of what he has done, and how everything he has proposed will help people like him and his family, but not the vast majority of families in ohio. in fact, if you look at his tax proposs, they efit him and other wethy people. hedge fund managers and the like. and they would actuly raise taxes on the middle class families. <booing> now that's the kind of contrast we are getting out in the campaign, but that's why we need your help, to make sure you go out and tk to everybody. and you know, i know people want change. that's part of the aman dynamic spirit. we want change. but i'll tell you one thing that is certain is we will have change, it's just what kind of change. it's whether or not we have change that helps the vast majority of amans, hard-wor amans, middle-class families, or continues to only help those at the top. i want an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. <applause> and that's exactly what we are going to fight for, and that is what we are going to get. i tell you, i've been cled a lot of things, right? i've never been cled quitter. if i tell you i'm going to get up every day and fight for you, that is exactly what i will do. <applause> but i know i can't do it -- i can't do it one. you know,   stood on the stage of his convention and just, once again, pain this dark and dire picture of ama. and he said, i one can fix it. he gets confused between leadership and dictatorship. <applause> he has a hard e remembering who our friends are and who our adversaries are. he has a weird fascination with dictators like  . we have a lot of people living in this part of ohio who either themselves or their parents or gparents came from countries that were under the yoke of oppression, and we are never going to let that happen again. <applause> and so when  basicly signs up for 's wish list, that's bad enough, but then when he is cavier -- and i'm not t about basketbl -- when he is cavier about nuclear weapons, saying that, he doesn't care if other countries get them. in fact, you know, if there were nuclear war in east asia, japan got nuclear weapons, if south korea got nuclear weapons, hey, you know, go at it folks. he even said he wouldn't care if saudi arabia got nuclear weapons. one thing that has been a bedrock of aman foreign policy through  and  presidents, going back to the dawn of the atomic age, is we were commit to try and keep other countries from getting access to nuclear weapons, to be able to stop proliferation. and now it's even more important because it's not only states that we have to worry about, like north korea. we've got to worry about terrorists getting their hands on nuclear weapons. the last thing we want to do is just act like it doesn't matter, because it does. i was involved in putting together the sanctions against iran that drove them to the negotiating table. and what i learned... <applause> if you use diplomacy and you're tough about it, you can actuly get an agreement to put a lid on their nuclear program. and we are going to make sure they follow it to the period, the comma, everything in that agreement. i'm going to enforce. <applause> and we still have chlenges with iran, but i think we are in a stronger position, given the fact that they are not racing for a nuclear weapon because we have intrusive inspections. so i know diplomacy can work because i have done it. and i know that... <applause> we can defeat isis and the terrorists if we work with other nations, if we have a coition that actuly takes them out from the air, takes them out on the ground and fights them online, where they are doing so much damage by radicizing and recruiting young people. <applause> i've been laying out my plan for what i think it will take to defeat isis, and i have no doubt we will. and  says he has a secret plan that he won't tell us about. well, there's no secret, he has no plan. we've got to do more -- we've got to do more to make sure we protect our country. we need the best intelligence we can get, the best cooperation among law enforcement at l levels of government. i will not rest. you know, as a former senator from new york, on 9/11, i take this as a person responsibility. i will do everything i can to keep our country safe and to work with others to defeat the threat posed by terrorism. <applause> finly, my friends, we've got to bring our country back together. <applause> there is too much divisiveness, too much finger-pointing and scapegoating. you know, our diversity is one of our strengths. <applause> we have to listen to each other. we don't have to agree. that's not required, but we need to be respectful. we need to listen, and then we need to roll up our sleeves and get to work. when i was first lady, senator, secretary of state, i worked to find common ground with everybody. i worked when i was first lady with s and s to create the children's heth insurance program that ensures 8 million kids. <applause> when i was in the senate, i worked with practicly every  i served with. and you know, they l have nice things to say about me when i am not running for something. <applause> and i will work again to move our country forward and to change the economy so it works better for hard-wor people. and when i was secretary of state, we negotia a treaty with russia to lower nuclear weapons, to try to lower the threat of that. and we had to get 13 s, and i worked tirelessly, and we got them. we did that. there's a lot we can do if we start listening and respecting each other, and avoid the kind of name-cling and insults that we see too much of. <applause> so, i'm exci about the campaign, but i'm even more exci about getting to work for you. being able to get up every day and find a way to try to help somebody. i mean, that is how i was raised in my church and by my family, and that is what i have done through my advocacy work and my leg work on behf of people who needed a voice. and i will do everything possible to make sure i deliver results for you. and the reason, the reason that i have published a book with my great running mate,   -- it's right here... <applause> is re simple. i want you to know what we say we are going to do because i want you to hold me accountable. <applause> i don't believe in bait and switch, where i say, we are going to do something, and then i am rely over here doing something else. that kind of reminds you somebody, doesn't it? no, here's what we're going to try to do. we're going to pay for it by raising taxes on the wethy, and closing loopholes on corporations. <applause> and i am the only candidate who ran this whole campaign saying i will never raise taxes on the middle class. that is not going to happen when i am president. so please, join this campaign the last 36 days. tk to your friends. remember, friends don't let friends vote for . <applause> i am motiva every day because now i am a gmother, two beautiful gchildren, and i think about their future. i think about their lives, i think about our country. i want our country to be the land of opportunity the place where dreams do come true if you are willing to work for them. not just for my gchildren but for every child. i want every child in this country to have a chance to live up to his or her god-given potenti. and if you will help me win this election, and then help me work to make it come true, we will have a country that delivers on our dreams and a future we can l be proud of. thank you, and god bless you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in manchester, new hampshire (sd/24)">
<date:"2016-11-06">
<:> i -- i am -- i am so, so touched and so grateful to be here in manchester with l of you. <applause> and particularly with mr. khan. <applause> as -- as he was spea, i saw sever of you holding up your constitutions. <applause> and he reminded us l of the fundament vues that set us apart as amans. he and his family exemplify the vues that make ama great. and in a race that has been marked by ugly suspicion and insults, and attacks of l kinds against immigrants, and muslims, and so many others, mr. khan, i think reminded l of us that we are amans. his son was an aman who gave his life for our country. we cherish the constitution and we will defend it. <applause> in fact, when a president is sworn in on inauguration day, that's the oath that a new president swears to -- to preserve, protect and defend the constitution. the first words i ever heard from mr. khan were about his son's courageous fin moments serving our country in iraq. he told the other troops in his unit to get back from a suspicious vehicle approaching their position. but he went forward. he took 10 steps toward danger before that car exploded. after his death, he was awarded both the bronze star and the purple heart. and here's what mr. khan said... <applause> ... that rely struck a chord with me. and as the story he just told us of the mother telling him about her son being bullied, these are words that i would  that l amans, and particularly young amans would hear and heed. mr. khan said "we still wonder what made him take those 10 steps. maybe that's the point where l the vues, l the service to country, l the things he learned in this country kicked it. it was those vues that made him take those ten steps. and those ten steps", mr. khan went on to say, "told us" -- meaning he and his wife and his family -- "told us we did not make a mistake in moving to this country." <applause> in fact, i think we should l be grateful that this remarkable family decided to make ama their home. we should be grateful for everyone who looks at ama and sees a beacon of  worth defending. <applause> this means so much -- this means so much to me, because like l of you, i love our country. <applause> and i believe with l my heart that our best days are still ahead of us if we reach for them together. i so believe, as mr. khan and were t before we came on, that we will have some work to do to bring about heing and reconciliation after this election. we have to begin listening to one another and respecting one another. <applause> because our core vues are being tes in this election. but when i meet people -- when i have a chance to hear from them about what they want for themselves and their families, my faith in our future has never been stronger. this election is a moment of reckoning. it is a choice between division or unity; between strong, steady leadership, or a loose cannon who could put everything at risk. <applause> and so, my friends, this is one of these elections that rely is a crossroads election in our country. i'm grateful to be joined tonight by so many wonderful people. there's a big overflow -- there are sever overflows and i  they can l hear my voice. <applause> i want to thank james taylor for that wonderful performance. <applause> so many of his songs are a part of the soundtrack for aman and it's wonderful that he could be here with us, ong with his wife, kim. <applause> i'm thrilled to be with your next senator, maggie hassan. <applause> maggie will bring a weth of experience to washington. she will bring the skills that enabled her to work across the aisle in the legislature and with the legislature. and we need that kind of common sense, problem-solving approach -- that independent voice that new hampshire so deserves to have. so i  and trust you will send maggie to the senate on tuesday. <applause> and i  you will send colin van ostern to the governorship. <applause> colin will build on maggie's record of accomplishment. and i think about l of the jobs that have been crea in this state, how college has been made more affordable, how you've taken on the epidemic of addiction. you're doing it the new hampshire way and both maggie and colin represent that. <applause> i sure think washington needs more of that. and i want you, so, to know how important it is to send congresswoman annie kuster and congresswoman carol shae-porter to washington, as well. <applause> both annie and carol will bring the e attitude about rolling up their sleeves and getting to work for you that we rely need in the congress right now. and another great member of the senate who's been up here campaigning for maggie and t about what will make the senate work better is the senator from rhode island, sheldon whitehouse, who's here with us. <applause> and finly -- finly, i want to just recognize a new hampshire native, who is now the attorney gener of massachusetts, attorney gener maura heeley. <applause> now, elections are, of course, a choice -- a choice between the people who are running. but much more than that, they are a choice about what we want to do in our country -- what kind of country we want. and they are often premised the visions -- the views of the candidates. and what i've tried to do in this campaign is to lay out an agenda -- what a novel idea. <laughter> i actuly... <applause> i actuly want you to know what i will try do if i'm so honored as to become your president. <applause> and my -- my running-mate,  , and i got together and we -- we put out a book cled "stronger together" which has l of our policies in there. it's -- yes, i see somebody holding it up back there -- because we don't only want you to know what we plan to do; we want you to hold us accountable. when i come back to new hampshire, i want you to ask, how's that college affordability plan going? what are we doing about getting the cost of prescription down? how are we managing the economy so that it produces more good jobs for everybody, not just those at the top? i want -- i want us to have an ongoing discussion about how we are l going to contribute to ma our country l it should be. i rely believe that ama's best years are still ahead of us if we l do our part. <applause> and i -- i think it's fair to say, after l the months of this campaign, my opponent has a very dark and divisive view of our country. somees when i hear him speak, i honestly don't recognize the country that he is t about. somees i'm not sure he recognizes the country he's t about. <applause> did any of you see the debates? did you l see the debates? <applause> well, i did spend four-and-a-hf hours next to   in those debates, proving, conclusively, i have the stamina to do this <inaudible>. <applause> but...
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> but it's so... <applause> but i -- i think it's -- it's -- it's so important that we believe in a ful, inclusive, big-hear, uni ama, right? <applause> where everyone has a place; where everyone is included; where people who are willing to work hard can get ahead and stay ahead; where we recognize the importance of the aman dream and we believe, and we will ensure, it is big enough for everyone, not just a few. <applause> so i -- i rely believe that, though my name and my opponent's name may be on the blot come tuesday, what's rely on the blot is what kind of country we want for our children and our gchildren. <applause> what's rely on the blot is every single issue we care about. our constitution set up a system of government that has stood the test of e. it can somees be frustrating, provide chlenges -- we know that. but here we are, the longest-lasting democracy in the history of the world. that is to be cherished and nurtured; not demeaned, not degraded. <applause> now, if you believe that our brave men and women in uniform, like captain khan, deserve a commander-in-chief who knows what needs to be done, then you have to vote. don't leave it to chance. don't leave it to others. use your voice and your vote because my opponent actuly said more countries should have nuclear weapons. <booing> and when a journist asked him about using nuclear weapons, he said "well, why do we make them?" i wonder if he even reizes he's t about nuclear war. the other day in ohio, i was at kent state university and i was introduced by a man named bruce blair. he had been in the air force decades ago and he was a launch officer in our nuclear program, which meant that he sat in a bunker during his watch e, in case the president -- whoever the president was -- were to order a nuclear attack. and bruce blair knows there is no appe from a president's order to launch a nuclear attack. there is no veto by the joint chiefs of staff, or anybody else. if a president orders a nuclear attack, there's about a four-minute window before it happens. i had never met mr. blair before. he's gone on to have a very distinguished career in security studies. but as he was watching this campaign and reflecting on the service he did as a young man, he reized he could never support  . and he cled other launch officers -- somees cled missileers -- and asked them what they were thin. and to a person, they said "this is unacceptable. this is actuly scary." so sever dozens of them wrote a letter saying that they know what the awesome responsibility is that a president of the uni states holds and they could never support   to be our president and commander-in-chief. <applause> and if you -- if you believe, like i do, that our economy grows and ama thrives when the middle class grows and thrives, then you have to vote too. <applause> we're going to make the biggest investment in good-paying jobs since world war ii -- jobs and infrastructure, and advanced manufacturing, and clean energy, sml business jobs. i want to be the best sml business president we've ever had... <applause> ... to enable more people to get star and grow their businesses. in contrast, my opponent built his fortune on the backs of sml business owners. but i'm the daughter of a sml businessman and i am just so glad my dad never got a contract from  . <applause> because so many who did were stiffed. but i want to make sure that we have easier access to capit, less red tape, more tax relief for people willing to take the risk of going in to sml businesses. i so think it's imperative that we make our economy fairer. and that means i do support raising the nation minimum wage. <applause> because, as i said, i believe in work. that's how i was raised. and i think we can do better for people who work full-e and still are mired in poverty. we want to get back to having ladders of opportunity. if you work in ama, you ought to be able to get ahead in ama and we're going to make that happen again. <applause> and we've got to start recognizing that families need more support. and that's why i want to make child care affordable, instead of costing as much as tuition. <applause> and it is e that we had paid family leave so that you can take care of the most important obligations that you have. <applause> and it is way past e to guarantee equ pay for women's work. <applause> and you know, this is not just a woman's issue. this is a family issue. if you have a mother, a wife, sister, or daughter, this is your issue. and this is an issue worth voting on, because it's e we made it fair for wor women. <applause> and if you believe l of our kids should have the chance to thrive in good schools, with good teachers, no matter what zip code they live in, then you have to vote, because we've got to make public education work for everyone. <applause> and i think we need some water. yes -- do we have some water that we can get here? if we -- if we have some water, that would be a big help. okay, great. now, look, i -- i think, when it comes to education, we do need to have high-quity, affordable, pre-kindergarten in every community. i so believe we need to bring back technic and vocation education into our high schools. <applause> because a four-year college degree should not be the only path to a good job and a middle-class life in new hampshire or in ama. <applause> and for anyone who does want to go to college, we are going to make it affordable. <applause> now, after the primary was over -- and i have to say, you l cleaned my clock in the primary. i know. <laughter> but it was a great primary because it was about ideas and issues, not insults. and i'm proud of the race that senator  and i ran. <applause> and -- and when it was over -- when it was over, we got together and we sat down, and we said how can we work to de with a lot of the issues that we were both concerned about in the primary. and we've put together a plan -- public colleges and universities should be tuition free for everyone who makes less than $125,000 a year. <applause> and it should be debt-free for everyone else. we have to treat it like an investment. <applause> and  and i were just in north carolina campaigning together. and it's so exciting, because we know that not only do we have make college affordable, we so have to help the millions of amans who are ready struggling with student debt to ease that burden, get those interest rates down, make it so you never have to pay more than you can afford. <applause> so, you see, wor for children and families has been the cause of my life, but it's never been more important than it is right now. and -- and it will be our mission together, doing everything we can to help l our kids and every aman have the chance to live up to their god-given potenti. i am ta very seriously the obligation that i feel to reach out to l amans. i'm as for the support, not just of s, but so s and independents in this election. <applause> i want to be the president for l amans -- those who vote for me and those who do not vote for me, because we have to he this country, and that's going to take everyone. <applause> we have to remember how to disagree without being so disagreeable. <applause> and you know, it is unusu for somebody running for president to say that what we need more of in our country is love and kindness, but we rely do -- toward one another, toward people different from ourselves. <applause> we l have a role in building a better, stronger, fairer ama and i am very honored to have gotten the kind of support i have received from s here in new hampshire. and i rely am very grateful for the recent statement by former senator, gordon humphrey, about what's at stake in this election. <applause> so -- you know, we can't do any of this work unless we're successful on tuesday. it rely l starts then. our future is in our hands. and anyone who says they're going to stay on the sidelines, or it doesn't matter, rely doesn't understand what's at stake in this election. we've got to get every aman eligible to vote, registered to vote. and here in new hampshire, you've got e- day registration, so you can l get out and vote. <applause> we've got to get everyone to believe that this election is about you. it is about you -- your dreams, your aspirations, your s, your family, your community. i have never felt more strongly about what we can do together. i am confident and i am opistic about the future we can make together. if you don't know where you're supposed to vote, you can go to iwillvote.com. they will tell you there. you can still volunteer. we have been knoc on hundreds of thousands of doors. i bet some of yours, right? and some of you did the knoc. <applause> but we are -- we are not ta anyone, or anything, or anyplace for gran. so if you want to volunteer, you can go to .com, or text join, 47246. it rely comes down, as far as i'm concerned, for me personly, to my gchildren, because i feel very blessed that i have had opportunities in our country because of my family and because of what others had done to prepare the path for me, going back to our founding. and i rely want each and every one of us to think for a moment about how we would feel on november 9th if we were not successful. when your kids and gkids ask you what you did in 2016, when everything was on the line, i  you're able to say you vo -- you vo for a better, stronger, fairer ama. <applause> an ama where we build bridges, not wls. <applause> an ama where we prove, once and for l, that love s hate. let's go vote, new hampshire. thank you. god bless you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in philadelphia, pennsylvania (sd/24)">
<date:"2016-11-07">
<:> hello, philadelphia! <applause>
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> oh, thank you! i am so grateful to be here tonight to spend this e with l of you here in this historic spot. and to l the volunteers, the activists, the union organizers of the hard hats i see in the audience tonight... <applause> ... thank you for coming out for one last rly before election day tomorrow. <applause> and personly, i am so happy to be finishing this campaign with my husband and my daughter by my side. we've been traveling across the country separately trying to cover as much ground as possible and tk to as many voters as we can. but i'm rely glad that we're l together tonight in philadelphia with you. <applause> and how great was it to have jon bon jovi and bruce springsteen with us? <applause> but in addition to l of that, what is so speci for me is that we have our amazing president and first lady with us, because for now nearly eight years they have served our nation with grace, strength, brilliance and a whole lot of cool. <applause> and they have shown us again and again, as  said right here in philadelphia back at our convention, when others go low, we go high.
<audience: we go high! (applause)>
<:> i'm pretty sure, as they said tonight, that the best way to thank them is to do something rely important tomorrow, to vote, every single one of you and every person you know. because as the president just poin out, there is a clear choice in this election, a choice between division or unity, between an economy that works for everyone or only those at the top, between strong, steady leadership or a loose cannon who could put everything at risk. so make no mistakes, our core vues are being tes in this election. we know enough about my opponent, we know who he is. the re question for us is what kind of country we want to be and what kind of future we want to build for our children. i'm proud that i had the chance to serve in president 's cabinet. <applause> and i am proud that i could watch the extraordinary service of our first lady. and one thing i know is that, like them, i love ama and i know you do, too. <applause> we love this country, we love what it stands for, not that we are blind to its flaws, its problems, its chlenges. but i believe with l my heart that ama's best days are still ahead of us... <applause> ... if we reach for them together. we choose to believe in a ful, inclusive, big-hear ama, an ama where everyone has a place, everyone's included, everyone has a chance to live up to their own god-given potenti. <applause> there have been so many memorable moments in this election, for me, and most of them revolve around the people that i've had the privilege of meeting. and last night in manchester, new hampshire, i had the honor to be introduced by khizr khan, whose son, captain khan, was killed serving our country in iraq. <applause> just as he did here at our convention, mr. khan again reminded us of the responsibility we l share to protect and defend our constitution. you remember the story of captain khan, the son of immigrants himself, brought here as a young child, who grew up to join the uni states army. and on that fateful day with his unit, he saw a suspicious car and he moved toward it to try to determine whether it was a danger or not, telling his men to stay back. the car was rigged, the bomb went off and he died protecting his men. he was awarded the bronze star and the purple heart. and what mr. khan said last night is something i want us l to remember. he said, after the many derogatory and insulting comments that we've heard from  , would his son, would captain khan have a place in  's ama? that's an important question for l of us, because we don't want to shrink the vision of this great country, we want to keep expanding it so that everyone -- everyone -- has a place to pursue your dreams, your aspirations, the future that you want to create for yourselves and everyone else. <applause> think about that when you go to the polls tomorrow. think about how throughout our history generations of amans just like us have come together to meet the tests of their e. and yes, as president  said, it star right here in philadelphia when representatives from 13 unruly colonies came together to launch the greatest experiment the world has ever seen. our parents and gparents defended that democracy. they built the great aman middle class. they marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers' rights and women's rights, for lgbt rights and rights for people with disabilities. <applause> and tomorrow we face the test of our e. what will we vote for, not just against? what will we decide is on the blot? because though my name and my opponent's name may be on the blot, every issue you care about is on that blot. if you believe that ama thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote. <applause> if you believe l of our kids should have good schools and good teachers no matter what zip code they live in, then you have to vote. <applause> if you believe college should be more affordable, you have to vote. <applause> if you believe we must reform our crimin justice system so everyone has respect for the law and everyone is respec by the law, you have to vote. <applause> if you believe we need to protect our kids and pass common sense gun safety reforms, you have to vote. <applause> if you believe we must raise the minimum wage and finly guarantee equ pay for women, then you need to vote. <applause> now, you know, every e i say that last part about equ pay for women, my opponent accuses me of playing the women's card. well, you know what i say? if that's playing the women's card, then de me in.
<audience: de me in! (applause)>
<:> so it is not just my name or  's name on the blot tomorrow. every issue you care about is at stake. and that is just the beginning because we have to bridge the divides in our country. i regret deeply how angry the tone of the campaign became.
<audience: not your fault. (laughter) (applause)>
<:> and by the way, did any of you see those debates? <applause> well, i stood next to   for four-and-a-hf hours, proving conclusively i have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief. <applause> but i have to say...
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> i have to say that there were so many rely troubling things that my opponent has said, but probably the most horrifying was at the end of the last debate. after he has insul everyone, more than hf the population by the way, immigrants, african amans, latinos, pows, muslims, women, he then launches an attack on our democracy, refusing to say whether or not he would accept the outcome of the election. well, let's show tomorrow there will be no question about the outcome of this election. <applause> but i so want you to know i will be a president for l amans... <applause> ... s, s, independents, not just the people who support me in this election, everyone, because i believe we l have a role to play in building a better, fairer, stronger ama, building on the progress that we have enjoyed under president   over the last eight years. <applause> i am not going to let anybody rip away the progress we've made and turn the clock back, sending us back in e where people are free to question the foundation of our country, what our founders here did. you know, they did not agree on everything in case you haven't remembered. there were lots of contentious arguments, but they saw a higher purpose and they came together. that's what i want us to do. and we can take the first step tomorrow. please, make a plan to vote. pennsylvania, it l happens tomorrow. <applause> if you text the word "plan," p-l-a-n, to 47246, we will wk you through where to vote, when to vote, how to get there. you can do that right now. and please, tell your friends, your family, your neighbors. and you can go to iwillvote.com and get l the information you need. every person who lives in philadelphia lives within five blocks of your polling place. that's it, just five blocks. and the polls open at 7 a.m. and they close at 8 p.m. and remember, if you're in line at 8 p.m. they have to let you vote. <applause> and so we need your help. in these last hours, we need your help knoc on doors and ma phone cls, helping to turn people out, maybe helping people who need assistance to get to the polls. you can still volunteer by going to .com, because none of us -- none of us -- want to wake up on wednesday morning and wish we had done more. years from today when your kids and gkids ask what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, i want you to be able to say that you did vote, you vo for an inclusive, big-hear, open-minded country future that will make sure that we l keep moving together, because i do believe we are stronger together. <applause> and you vo for an ama where we build bridges, not wls. <applause> and maybe most importantly, you vo in great numbers to demonstrate conclusively, once and for l that, yes, love s hate. let's get out and vote, philadelphia, tomorrow! <applause> let's make history together. thank you and god bless you!<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in reno, nevada (sd)">
<date:"2016-08-25">
<:> thank you. thank you so much. i -- i am so thrilled to be back in reno. thank you. i -- i have to say though, i know when i'm here in reno, i'm the other . and i am more than ok with that because i think your mayor is doing a terrific job. and the fact that she herself is a sml businesswoman and commit to rely lifting up reno, and giving everybody in this great city, the biggest little city with a big heart, a chance to get ahead and stay ahead. i could not be more honored than to have her support and endorsement in this race. so thank you so much, mayor schieve. and let me so thank dr. karen hilgersom and everybody here at truckee meadows community college. i love community colleges, and i know something about what this college is doing to give people of l ages -- not just young people -- a re chance to get the skills and opportunities that everybody in ama deserves. so thank you. now i have to, i have to begin by saying my origin plan for this visit was to focus on our agenda to help sml businesses and entrepreneurs. this week we proposed new steps to cut red tape and taxes, to make it easier for sml businesses to get the credit they need to grow and hire. i want to be a sml business president. my father was a sml businessman. and i believe that in ama, if you can dream it, you should be able to build it. and so we'll be t a lot more about sml business and about our economic plans in the days and weeks ahead. but today, here in this community college devo to opening minds and creating a great understanding of the world in which we live, i want to address something that i am hearing about from amans l over our country. everywhere i go people tell me how concerned they are by the divisive rhetoric coming from my opponent in this election. and i, i understand that concern because it's like nothing we've heard before from a nominee for president of the uni states, from one of our two major parties. from the start,   has built his campaign on prejudice and paranoia. he is ta hate groups mainstream, and helping a radic fringe take over the  party. his disregard for the vues that make our country great is profoundly dangerous. 
<:> in just this past week, under the guise of outreach to african-amans,  has stood up in front of largely white audiences and described black communities in such insulting and ignorant terms. poverty, rejection, horrible education, no housing, no homes, no ownership, crime at levels nobody has seen. right now he said you can wk down the street and get shot. those are his words. but when i hear them, i think to myself, how sad.   misses so much. he doesn't see the success of black leaders in every field, the vibrancy of black-owned businesses, the strength of the black church. he doesn't see -- <applause> he doesn't see the excellence of historicly black colleges and universities or the pride of black parents watching their children thrive. he apparently didn't see police chief brown of dlas on television after the murders of five of his officers, conducting himself with such dignity. he certainly doesn't have any solutions to take on the reity of systemic racism and create more equity and opportunity in communities of color, and for every aman. it rely does take a lot of nerve to ask people he's ignored and mistrea for decades, what do you have to lose? because the answer is everything. now 's lack of knowledge or experience or solutions would be bad enough. but what he's doing here is more sinister.  is reinforcing harmful stereotypes and offering a dog whistle to his most hateful supporters. it's a disturbing preview of what kind of president he'd be. and that's what i want to make clear today. a man with a long history of raci discrimination, who traffics in dark conspiracy theories drawn from the pages of supermarket tabloids and the far dark reaches of the internet should never run our government our command our military. <applause> ask yourself, if he doesn't respect l amans, how can he serve l amans? now i -- i know that some people still want to give  the efit of the doubt. they  that he will eventuly reinvent himself, that there's a kinder, gentler, more responsible   waiting in the wings somewhere. because, after l, it is hard to believe anyone, let one a nominee for president, could rely believe l the things he says. but here's the hard truth. there is no other  . this is it. and maya angelou, a great aman whom i admired very much, she once said, when someone shows you who they are, believe them the first e. well throughout his career and this campaign,   has shown us exactly who it, who he is, and i think we should believe him. when he was getting his start in business, he was sued by the justice department for refusing to rent apartments to black and latino tenants. their applications would be marked with a c, c for colored, and then rejec. three years later, the justice department took  back to court because he hadn't changed. and the pattern continued through the decades. state regulators fined one of 's casinos for repey removing black deers from the floor. no wonder the turnover rate for his minority employees was way above average. and let's not forget that  first gained politic prominence leading the charge for the so-cled birthers. he promo the racist lie that president  is not rely an aman citizen, part of a sustained effort to delegiize ama's first black president.
<:> and in 2015,  launched his own campaign for president with another racist lie. he described mexican immigrants as rapists and crimins. and he accused the mexican government of actively sending them across the border. none of that is true. and oh, by the way... <applause> ... by the way, mexico's not paying for his wl either. <laughter> if he ever tries to get it built, the aman taxpayer will pay for it. we'll be stuck with the . but there has been a steady stream of bigotry coming from him. i think we l remember when  said a distinguished feder judge born in indiana could not be trus to do his job because, quote, "he's a mexican." think about that. the man who today is the standard bearer of the  party said a feder judge who, by the way, had a distinguished record as a u.s. attorney; had to go in hiding because mexican drug gangs were after him; who has mexican heritage, but just like me was born in this country, is somehow incapable solely because of his heritage. even the  speaker of the house of representatives,  , described that, and i quote, as the "textbook definition of a racist comment." and to this day -- to this day,  has never apologized to judge curiel. but for , that is just par for the course. this is someone who re-tweets white supremacists online, like the user who goes by the name "white genocide tm."  took this fringe bigot with a few dozen followers, and spread his message to 11 million people. his campaign famously pos an anti-semitic image, a star of  imposed over a sea of dollar s that first appeared on white supremacist websites. the  campaign has so selec a prominent white nation -- nationist leader as a delegate in cifornia, and they only dropped him under pressure. when asked in a nationly televised interview whether he would disavow the support of  duke, a former g wizard of the ku klux klan,  wouldn't do it. and only later, again under mounting pressure, did he backtrack. and when  was asked about anti- semitic slurs and death threats coming from his supporters, he refused to condemn them. through it l, he has continued pushing discredi conspiracy theories with racist undertones. you remember, he said that thousands of aman muslims in new jersey cheered the 9/11 attacks. they didn't. he sugges the senator  's father was involved in the kennedy assassination. now, perhaps in 's mind, because mr.  was a cuban immigrant, he must have had something to do with it. and there is absolutely, of course, no evidence of that. just recently,  claimed that president  founded isis. and he has repea that over and over again. his latest paranoid fever dream is about my heth. and l i can say is, , dream on. <laughter> <applause> but -- but, my friend -- <applause> <laughter> -- but my friend, this is what happens when you treat the nation enquirer like gospel. they said in october i'd be dead in six months. it's so what happens when you listen to the radio host ex jones, who claims that 9/11 and the oklahoma city bombings were inside jobs.
<:> he even said, and this rely just is so disgusting, he even said the vics of the sandy hook massacre were child actors and no one was actuly killed there. i don't know what happens in somebody's mind or how dark their heart must be to say things like. but  doesn't chlenge these lies, he actuly went on jones' show and said your reputation is amazing i will not let you down. this from the man who wants to be president of the uni states. you know i've stood by president 's side as he made the toughest decisions a commander-in-chief has to make. in es of crisis, our country depends on steady leadership, clear thin, cm judgment, because one wrong move can mean the difference between life and death. i know we have veterans here and i know we have families, mothers, and spouses, and children of people currently serving. the last thing we need in the situation room is a loose cannon who can't tell the difference -- or doesn't care to -- between fact and fiction. and who buys so easily into racily tinged rumors. <applause> someone so detached from reity should never be in charge of ma decisions that are as re as they come. and that is yet another reason why   is simply temperamently unfit to be president of the untied states. <applause> now, i -- i hear and i read some people who are saying well, that -- his bluster and is bigotry is -- is just overhea campaign rhetoric. an outrageous person saying outrageous things for attention. but look at his policies, the ones that  has proposed -- they would put prejudice into practice. and don't be distrac by his latest efforts to muddy the waters. he may have some new people putting new words in his mouth but we know where he stands. he would form a deportation force to round up millions of immigrants and kick them out of the country. he'd abolish the bed rock constitution principle that says if you're born in the uni states you're an aman citizen. he says that children born to undocumen parents in ama are anchor babies and should be depor, millions of them. he'd ban muslims around the world from entering our country just because of their religion. now think about that for a minute, how would that actuly work? the people landing in u.s. airports would line up to get their passports stamped -- just like they do now. but in s ama, when they step up to the counter, the immigration officer would ask every single person what is your religion and then what? what is someone says i'm a tian but the agent doesn't believe him. do they have to prove it? how would they do that? rely ever since the pilgrims landed on plymouth rock, ama has distinguished itself as a haven for people fleeing religious persecution, believing in religious freedom, and religious liberty. <applause> under  , ama would distinguish itself as the only country in the world to impose a religious test at the border. now come to think of it, there actuly maybe one other place that does that, the so cled islamic state, the territory that isis controls. what a cruel irony that someone running for president would equate us with them. now but don't worry some will say, as president  will be surrounded by smart advisors who will rein in his worst impulses. so when a tweet gets under his skin and he wants to retiate with a cruise missile, maybe cooler heads will convince him not to, well maybe. but look at who he's put in charge of his campaign.
<:>  likes to say he only hires the best people but he's had to fire so many campaign managers it's like an episode from the apprentice. <applause> and the latest shake up was designed to quote "let  be ". so to do that he hired stephen , the head of a right- wing website cled breitbart.com, as the campaign's ceo. now, to give you a flavor of his work, here are a few headlines that they've published. and i'm not ma this up. "birth control makes women unattractive and crazy." "would you rather your child had feminism or cancer?" "gabby giffords: the gun control movement's n shield." "hoist it high and proud: the confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage". and that one came shortly after the charleston massacre, when s and s ike were doing everything they could to he raci divides that breitbart and  tried to inflame. just imagine,  , reading that and thin: this is what i need more of in my campaign. now,  has nasty things to say about pretty much everyone. this spring, he railed against speaker   for, quote, "rubbing his soci-justice catholicism in my nose every second." no wonder he's gone to work for , the only presidenti candidate ever to get into a public feud with the pope. it's truly hard to believe but according to the southern poverty law center, which tracks hate groups, breitbart embraces ideas on the extremist fringe of the conservative right. this is not conservatism as we have known it. this is not ism as we have known it. these are racist ideas, race-baiting ideas, anti-muslim, anti- immigrant, anti-woman, l key tenants ma up an emerging racist ideology known as the t-right. now, t-right is short for ternative-right. the wl street journ describes it, as a loose but organized movement, mostly online, that rejects mainstream conservatism, promotes nationism, and views immigration and multiculturism as threats to white identity. so the de facto merger between breitbart and the  campaign represents a landmark achievement for this group, a fringe element has effectively taken over the  party. and this is part of a broader story -- the rising tide of hard-line, right-wing nationism around the world. just yesterday, one of britain's most prominent right-wing leaders, nigel farage, who stoked anti-immigrant senents to win the referendum, to have britain leave the european union, campaigned with   in mississippi -- farage has cled for a bar on the children of leg immigrants from public schools and heth services. he has said, women are -- and i quote -- worth less than men. and he supports scrapping laws that prevent employers from discriminating based on race. that's who   wants by his side when he is addressing an audience of aman voters. and the g-godfather of this glob b of extreme nationism is russian president  . in fact, farage has appeared regularly on russian propaganda programs. now he's standing on the e stage as the  nominee.  himself heaps praise on  and embraces pro-russian policies. he tks casuly of abandoning our nato lies, recognizing russia's annexation of crimea, giving the kremlin a free hand in eastern europe. aman presidents from truman, to reagan, to , to , to  have rejec the kind of approach  is ta on russia. and we should, too.
<:> l of this adds up to something we've never seen before. of course there's ways been a paranoid fringe in our politics, a lot of it arising raci resentment. but it's never had the nominee of a major party sto it, encouraging it, and giving it a nation megaphone, until now. on  duke's radio show the other day, the mood was jubilant. "we appear to have taken over the  party," one white supremacist said. duke laughed. "no, there's still more work to do," he replied. so no one should have any illusions about what's rely going on here. the names may have changed, racists now cl themselves raciists, white supremacists now cl themselves white nationists, the paranoid fringe now cls itself t-right, but the hate burns just as bright. now  is trying to re-b himself as well. but don't be fooled. there's an old mexican proverb that says "tell me with whom you wk, and i will tell you who you are." so we know who  is. <applause> a few words on a teleprompter won't change that. he says he wants to make ama great again, but more and more it seems as though his re message seems to be make ama hate again. and this isn't just about one election. it's about who we are as a nation, it's about the kind of example we want to set for our children and our gchildren. next e you see  on tv think about l the children listening across ama. kids hear a lot more than we think. parents and teachers are ready worrying about what they cl the " effect." they report that bullying and harassment are on the rise in our schools, especily targeting students of color, muslims and immigrants. at a recent high school basketbl game in indiana, white students held up  signs and taun latino players on the opposing team with chants of "build the wl" and "speak english." after a similar incident in iowa one frustra school princip said, they see it in a presidenti campaign and now it's ok for everyone to say this. we wouldn't tolerate this kind of behavior before and we wouldn't tolerate it in our homes. and we should not stand for it from a presidenti candidate. <applause> my friends, this is a moment of reckoning for every  dismayed that the party of  has become the party of . it's a moment of reckoning for l of us who love our country and believe that ama is better than this. twenty years ago when bob dole accep the  nomination, he poin to the exits in the convention hl, and told any racist in the party to get out. the week after 9/11  w.  went to a mosque and declared for everyone to hear that muslims love ama just as much as i do. in 2008,  mccain told his own supporters that they were wrong about the man he was trying to defeat. senator mccain made sure they knew barrack , he said, was an aman citizen and a decent person. we need that kind of leadership again. <applause> we can have our disagreements and believe me i understand that. i think that's hethy. we need good debates. but we need to do it in a respectful way. not finger-pointing and blaming and stirring up this bigotry and prejudice. every day more amans are standing up and saying, enough is enough, including s, and i am honored to have their support in this campaign. <applause> and i promise you this. with your help i will be a president for s, s and independents. for those who vote for me, and for those who vote against me. i will be a president for l amans.
<:> because i truly believe we are stronger together, and this is a vision for the future roo in our vues and reflec in a rising generation of young people. the young people in ama today are the most open, diverse and connec generation we have ever seen. <applause> how many of you saw any of the olympics? right? <applause> i was -- i was so proud i ways get carried away every e the olympics are on. and you look at the diversity of our athletes. look at our fabulous olympic team, representing the uni states of ama. <applause> ibtihaj muhammad, an african aman muslim from new jersey, won the bronze med in fencing with grace and skill. <applause> would she even have a place in  's ama? and i'll tell you, when i was growing up, in so many parts of our country, simone manuel and katie ledecky would not have been lowed to swim in the e public pool. and now together on our swimming team, they're winning olympic meds as teammates. <applause> i don't know about you, but i don't think we have a person to waste. we want to build an ama where everyone has a place; where if you work hard and you do your part, you can get ahead and stay ahead. that's a basic bargain of ama. and we cannot get to where we need to be unless we move forward together and stand up against prejudice and paranoia, and prove again that ama is great because ama is good. thank you l so very much. let's go out and win the election. god bless you and god bless the uni states of ama.<title=" rodham ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at the nation baptist convention 136th annu session">
<date:"2016-09-08">
<:> good evening, this is the day the lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. <applause> president young, pastors, friends, i'm very grateful for this great chance to be with you during your week of convention. i'm especily pleased to see my friend, the mayor of this great city. he is someone, who -- if you haven't gotten to know i  you do -- thank you mayor sly james. i was so... <applause> ... deligh to greet on the way in the new jackson county executive, major league basebl star and l around good guy, frank white, who has done such an incredible amount of good work on the field, and now off the field. i want to thank l of you, dr. miles, dr. brown, l our friends from this city, and this state for hosting us. i want to acknowledge on a person point, dr. shaw, celebrating 60 years as pastor of the white rock baptist church. <applause> when i saw him tonight i kidded him and said he star when he was two. <laughter> i'm sure there's a law against that dr. shaw. dr. mckinney, dr. brown, l the members of the executive board and state presidents. now i know that reverend jackson was with you on monday, and congressman cleaver was with you on tuesday. so tk about two tough acts to follow. but, they are both dear longstanding friends of mine and i'm honored to be on this e stage as so many distinguished leaders. now, i happen to be a born and raised methodist but i've been married to a southern baptist for more than 40 years. <applause> and, from arkansas to new york... <applause> friends of arkansas.  we've got friends from arkansas here. but across this great country you've welcomed me into your congregations with open arms and open hearts. and, i am grateful for the friendship support, and tian hospitity i have found there. as pastors, as spouses of pastors, families of pastors, you know better than anyone the importance of building relationships of trust and respect. and i am sure some of you are sick and tired of politicians who think they can just show up at election e, say a few nice words and then earn your support right? well, you and your congregations deserve better than that. you deserve a sustained commitment to expanding opportunity, equity and justice. not just for two or four years, not just when the cameras are on, and people are watching, but every single day. and, you know better than anyone, that people who look at the african-aman community and see only poverty, crime and despair, are missing so much. <applause> they're missing the vibrancy of black owned businesses. the excellence of historicly black colleges and universities. <applause> they're missing the success of black leaders in every field. and the passion of a new generation of young black activists. and yes, they are missing the strength of the black church, the solid rock on which so much is built. <applause> well, i see you. i see the work you do, and the lives you change. and, today i want to say something that you don't hear often enough. thank you. thank you. <applause> thank you for answering the charge given to us by jesus as matthew records. de-feed the hungry, clothe the naked, visit the sick, welcome the stranger. thank you for loving l people, especily the least, the last and the lost among us. and, you know so well, we're not asked to love each other, not urged or reques, we are commanded to love. <applause> in deed, jesus made it his greatest commandment. when i used to teach the occasion sunday school class i often taught on that lesson. that's a hard commandment to obey. some days it's rely hard for me. <laughter> but, in so many ways, l of you have answered that cl. i've been privileged to see your love in action with my own eyes. i've seen the love at mount zion missionary baptist church in cedar rapids, iowa. pastor damien epps and his congregation collec tens of thousands of water bottles to send to families in flint, michigan suffering from water poisoned with lead. <applause> because they remembered. that eight years before, when the mississippi rose up and flooded eastern iowa, others came to there aid. as pastor epps said, they are fellow amans, they are n beings, we should want to reach out and help. and he's right. that ethic is at the core of our tian faith. and, we l have work together to make sure every child in ama has clean water to drink, clean air to breathe and good schools no matter what zip code they live in. i've seen the love at tabernacle community baptist church in milwaukee. reverend don darius butler has helped organize gun buy- back programs because none of us can sit back while the epidemic of gun violence ravages our communities and our country. it is, as you know, by the far the leading cause of death for young black men. more than the next nine causes of death combined. and i promise you this, as president, i'll stand with you in the fight for common-sense gun safety reforms. <applause> i've seen the love at the triumph baptist church in philadelphia, where reverend james hl, guided by what he cls the three e's of evangelism, education, and economic development, has been led to set up a credit union to help people in the community overlooked or ignored by the banks so they can get a sml business loan. save for college or put something away for retirement. they've helped build a supermarket in a neighborhood that hadn't seen one in more than 10 years. and, they're reaching out beyond the pews to help families live hethy, prosperous lives. i've seen the love at dexter avenue,  memori baptist church in montgomery, abama. it was an honor to join reverend cromwell handy and his congregation last december to celebrate the 60th anniversary of rosa parks' courageous action against segregation. <applause> and by the way... <applause> ... rosa parks, may have opened up every seat on the bus, now it's our job to create good jobs so everyone can afford the fare, and they can actuly get bus routes to reach every neighborhood that connects them with safe affordable housing and good jobs. as president, i will be your partner in this work of translating love into action. together we'll make transformative investments in communities that have been left out, and left behind for far too long, from our neglec inner cities to struggling rur communities. we'll work with both parties to make the biggest investment in good new jobs since world war ii. including $20 ion to tackle the chlenge of youth unemployment which is twice as high for young african-amans as it is for young white amans. <applause> we'll ban the box and do more to help people who've paid their debt to society find jobs and housing when they get out. <applause> and, we will embrace congressman jim clyburn's 10, 20, 30 plan, steering 10 percent of feder investments to neighborhoods where 20 percent of the population has been living below the poverty line for 30 years. <applause> that's a great idea whose e has come and we can translate it into reity. together we'll face head on systemic racism and work to reform our crimin justice system from end to end. because everyone, in every community should have respect for the law, and be respec by the law. <applause> we'll beat back the assault on voting rights. it is a blast from the jim crow past that must be stopped. <applause> we should be expanding voting rights instead. the best way to stand up to those who are trying to prevent any person from exercising his or her vote is to register and show up, and vote against them, and make sure your vote counts loudly and clearly. <applause> there's so much we can do if we keep love in our hearts as we do the nobel work of brea down barriers that hold amans back. now, as you well know we are in the fin stretch of the election that may be the most consequenti of our lifees. an election in which l of these issues and so many more are at stake. our nation's vues are being questioned in this election. we are facing a candidate with a long history of raci discrimination in his business. <applause> who traffics in toxic conspiracy theories like the lie that president  is not a true aman. <applause> if he doesn't even respect l amans, how can he serve l amans? <applause> so we must keep cling him out, and rejecting the hateful, bigo rhetoric that seeks to pit amans one against each other. and, continue ma the case in every way for our vision of an ama that is stronger together. an ama where l our children have the choice to live up to their god given potenti no matter where they come from or what they look like, or what the circumstances of their lives have been. i have laid out my vision and my agenda. in fact senator  and i have just published a book cled "stronger together" that lays it out clearly so you know what you're voting for not just against. <applause> and we're going to get the economy to work for everyone not just those at the top. how we're going to have more jobs and infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, clean renewable energy. how we're going to do more to help sml businesses. the fastest growing segment of sml business in ama today, our sml businesses star by african-aman women. <applause> i want to be a sml business president to help everyone willing to take the chance. and we're going to make the economy fairer. we are going to raise the nation minimum wage. no-one who works full- e should be mired in poverty at the end of a long hard year. <applause> and, yes, we are finly going to guarantee equ pay for women's work so that we raise family incomes and provide the respect that comes from being paid what you are entitled to earn. and we're going to make education work for every child. early childhood education, univers pre-kindergarten. i want to bring technic education back into high school, it was a mistake when we took l that vocation education out of our high schools. <applause> i want every young person who wants to go to college to be able to go to college but i want every young person who wants to do a good day's work in a job that builds ama, the machinist, the tool and dye makers, the computer coders. i want them to feel they are just as welcome and wan. and we're going to make college affordable for everybody. and i have a $25 ion plan specificly focused on historicly black colleges and universities that serve our nation and provide the leaders of the next generation. <applause> and we're going to help you pay down your student debt. <applause> it is way past e. and, let's make sure heth care is available, affordable, of high quity for everybody. and, we've got to get the cost of prescription drugs down. <applause> and, we have to do more to help with ment heth and addiction. two problems i hear about across our country, which i know you hear about in your churches. so, we have a lot of work to do. and, we're going to keep wor to earn every vote, and never take any community, or any person for gran.   and i, have launched a nationwide drive to register and commit 3 million amans to vote by election day, and i  you will be part of it. <applause> this election is too important for anyone to sit on the sidelines. today for a few minutes, i want to leave aside the politics and do something that doesn't ways come naturly to a mid- western methodist. <laughter> that is to tk about my own faith. how it lead me to a life of service. how it will guide me as president. somees people ask me are you a praying person. and, i tell them if i wasn't one before... <laughter> ... one week living in the white house or on the campaign trail would have turned me into a praying person. but, i had the great blessing to be raised by a family in a church that instilled in me a deep and abiding tian faith and practice. i still remember my late father, a gruff, former navy man, on his knees praying by his bed every night. that made a big impression on me as a young girl. seeing him humble himself before god. my mother taught sunday school at our church. partly she said because she wan to make sure my brothers actuly showed up at sunday school when they wked out the door. her faith was roo in gratitude for the love that helped her survive a painful childhood after her own family abandoned and mistrea her. she was sustained by the kindness of others. like the first grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat at lunch and brought extra food to share. my mother was determined to pay that kindness forward. and, she rely liked the wesley and credo of our church -- do l the good you can, for l the people you can, in l the ways you can, as long as ever you can. i was so so blessed to have a remarkable youth minister who believed like  wesley, the founder of methodism that the world is my parish. he told us, these young white kids in a suburban area of chicago, you can't just be satisfied in your own church, and your own middle class life, we're going into the inner city of chicago. we're going into church basements for fellowship, with young people your age from african-aman churches and hispanic churches. that was the first e i was in a black church, when i was a teenager. he took us to hear dr.  luther   speak. <applause> he sent home the permission slips -- whether we could get in the church van to go into chicago on a sunday night to hear dr. . and, some of the parents wouldn't let their kids go. my mother said, this is a historic opportunity. i remember -- i remember hearing dr.  preach one of those well-known sermons staying awake during the revolution. and then i stood in line with everybody in that big hl just to shake his hand and look into his eye. his words, the power of his example, affec me deeply and added to the lessons of my minister to face the world as it is not as we might want it to be but to commit ourselves to turning it into what it should be. so, thanks to my family and my church, i am braced in activist soci justice faith. the roll up your sleeves and get your hands dirty faith. as st. francis of assisi reporly advised, try to preach the gospel ways and if necessary use words. <applause> the scripture tells us that faith without words, is dead. the epistle of james tells us we cannot just be hearers of the word, we must be doers. and i believe that with l my heart. i am grateful for the gift of person svation and for the great obligation of the soci gospel. <applause> to use the gift of grace wisely. to reflect the love of god and follow the example of jesus t to the greater good of god's beloved community. that's what lead me to devote my life in the ways i could to serving others, especily children. i went to work right out of law school for the great marian wright edelman, the daughter of a baptist minister from nettsville, south carolina, and the founder of the children's defense fund. <applause> she sent me door to door in new bedford, massachusetts on behf of children with disabilities who weren't able at that e to attend public schools. to south carolina to investigate the plight of 12 and 13 year old boys imprisoned ongside grown men who had commit serious felonies. and, to abama to expose the racism of segrega academies. <applause> i went undercover to abama l by myself. mary just said, well you just have to go do it. and, i did. now, it would have been easier and certainly more remunerative to follow many of my law school classmates to a high powered new york law firm. but the cl to service roo in my faith was just too powerful. for me, it has ways been about trying to live up to the responsibility described by the prophet micah, that we do justice, love kindness, and wk humbly with our god. <applause> humility is not something you hear much about in politics is it?
<audience: no.>
<:> but, we should. none of us is perfect. st.  reminds us we l see through a glass darkly, and for now only know in part. it's because of that, because of the limitations we l face, that faith requires a leap. the conviction of things unseen. it's because of our limitations and imperfections that we must reach out beyond ourselves to god and to each other. it isn't easy, but i've learned to be grateful not just for my blessings, but so for my faults, and there are plenty. i've made my share of mistakes, i don't know anyone who hasn't. everyone here today has stumbled on their own stony paths. its grace that lifts us up, and grace that leads us home. <applause> but it's so our job to learn from our mistakes. to do l we can, to do better next e. and to stay grateful to live by the discipline of gratitude. our tian faith is a journey that never ends. it's a constant chlenge to live up to our own s and ides, to love and to forgive others as we want to be loved and forgiven ourselves. you know as president  reminded us, see high office is by definition an act of audacity. and, yet, our greatest leaders, are often the most humble. because they recognize both the awesome responsibilities of power and the frailties of n action. i've sat in the situation room with president  weighing conflicting advice and imperfect information. wrestling with the hardest choices a leader can make, whether to send our young men and women into harm's way. knowing that some of them, will never return. there is nothing more humbling than that, nothing that should drive you to your knees more than that. that's why in this e of both peril and promise we need a president who understands that none of us has l the answers, and no one person can fix our problems one. <applause> a president who understands we have to look out for each other and lift each other up, not tear each other down. that's what we need to do together. invest in our people, believe in each other. create the jobs, and the schools, and the opportunities for young people so that they believe that we care about them. send our children to schools that reflect their promise not our neglect. make sure every child is given the heth care he or she needs whether it is for an ailment of the body or the mind. stand ready to lift each other up when we fl as we will. give those who have made mistakes, a second, third chance. our faith is a faith of second, and third, and fourth, and fifth chances for those who genuinely are see redemption. <applause> and we need a president who understands the powerful role that faith, and communities of faith, have ways played in moving our country toward justice. from the abolitionists of the 19th century, to the civil rights movement of the 20th century, to the unfinished business of today. a president who will pray with you, and for you. <applause> who will defend the dignity of every individu. and the princip of religious freedom that was woven into the mor fabric of our nation from the very beginning. yes, we need a president, who will do justice, love kindness, and wk humbly with our god. my friends, one of the greatest privileges of this campaign has been getting to know a remarkable group of women who've lost children to gun violence or police incidents. they're known as "the mothers of the movement" and their hearts may be broken, but their souls shine through. i'll never forget listening to gwen carr, the mother of  garner, describe the mission these mothers feel cled to lead. we were at the centr baptist church in columbia, south carolina, pastored by reverend y ray ezell senior. i wish you l could have heard her. gwen was as eloquent as any preacher. she recled the pain of losing her son. she said at first, she couldn't even get out of bed. but, then she said, the lord tked to me, and told me, are you going to lay here and die like your son or are you going to get up and uplift his name? she reized in that moment that none of us can rest as long as there are others out there to be saved. and, that her voice could move people to action. and, then she said this, i had to turn my sorrow into a strategy, my morning into a movement. gwen hasn't stopped wor since. bringing more and more lies to the cause of peace and justice because she knows in a way that tragedy and profound loss can teach us. that we are stronger together than we could ever be one. gwen and the other mothers of the movement are living what the scripture tells us. let us not grow weary in doing good for in due season, we shl reap if we do not lose heart. <applause> these are words we l should live by. and, if i have the great honor of serving as your president, these are words that i will lead by. thank you l, and may god bless, you and may god bless our great country. thank you.<title="  delivers remarks at the nation association of black journists and the nation association of hispanic journists' joint convention (sd)">
<date:"2016-08-05">
<:> good morning. i am so pleased to be here, i want to thank you l for the invitation, for the introduction, to everyone associa with nabj and nahj. i want to just mark the moment because you we're crea in this hotel. i don't know if there are any origin founders but if there are could you l stand up and we could give you some recognition. i am deligh to thank you for the important work you do everyday and now more then ever, we need you to keep holding leaders and candidates accountable. and in the tradition of path-brea journists like ethel payne and ru sazar, we need you to make sure that ama's front pages, and nightly new casts, and online information reflects the great diversity of our nation. someone that i had the privilege of knowing, the late great bob maynard, former owner of the oakland tribune once said... <applause> and i quote bob, "it is in seeing ourselves whole that we can begin to see ways of wor out our differences of understanding our similarities and becoming a more cohesive nation," and that is what you do everyday. helping us to see ourselves as whole -- i'm loo forward to our discussion, which i'm sure will cover a wide range of issues. but i want to take just a few minutes to focus on a chlenge that doesn't get enough attention on the campaign tri, though i've been trying, and that is how do we expand economic opportunity for african-amans and latinos across ama. and you know very well -- it's been said -- that when the economy catches a cold, communities of color get pneumonia. the great recession hit our whole country hard but the toll was especily difficult for black and latino families. black weth was cut in hf, for latinos it dropped 66 percent. that represen decades even generations of hard work, and during these past 18 months people across our country have described to me how hard it's been to get back on their feet in an economy that is still not wor the way we l want to see it, and barriers of systemic racism makes that even harder. now i believe that president  does not get the credit he deserves for leading us out of the great recession. <applause> and i like to remind people, he had nothing to do with creating it in the first place. <applause> he came into office in this worst of l financi crises since the great depression -- was handed to him. and i think if you fairly look at the record, you have to conclude that his leadership saved us from a great depression.
<:> so as bad a things became -- 9 million jobs lost, 5 million homes lost, $13 trillion in family weth wiped out -- as bad as it was, there's no telling how far down we would have gone without his leadership. so we are out of the ditch that we were in and now we've got to do even more. we've got to build on the progress we've made, 15 million new jobs in the last seven and a hf years, 20 million people now have heth insurance who did not have it before he became president. so we've got to have the will and the plans together to move forward. that's why i've proposed a comprehensive new commitment to african aman and latino communities to make serious, sustained investments to create more good paying jobs. to help families build and rebuild weth, to support black and latino owned sml businesses. for me these aren't just economic issues, they're part of a long, continuing struggle for civil rights. rosa parks opened up every seat on the bus, now we've got to expand economic opportunities so everyone can afford the fare and we have to make sure the bus route reaches every neighborhood and connects families with safe, affordable housing and good jobs. <applause> sylvia mendez and ruby bridges helped desegregate our schools, now we've got to help every family afford the books, computers and internet access that our kids need to learn in the 21st century. and so in my first 100 days as president, we will work with both parties to pass the biggest investment in new good paying jobs since world war ii. that includes jobs in manufacturing, clean energy, technology and innovation, sml businesses and infrastructure. if we invest in infrastructure now we will not only create jobs today, we will lay the foundation for the jobs of the future. we're going to so focus on creating jobs and communities where unemployment remains stubbornly high after generations of underinvestment and neglect. i'm a big fan of congressman jim clyburn's 10-20-30 plan, steering 10 percent of feder investment to neighborhoods where 20 percent of the population has been living below the poverty line for 30 years. we need that kind of focused, targe investment in urban places, rur places, wherever amans have been left out and left behind. we're so going to invest $20 ion in creating jobs for young people. there's a big gap here. the unemployment rate among latino and african aman youth is significantly higher than for whites. you know it's hard to write a resume if you have nothing to put on it. we're going to help our young people get that first job, so they can get that second job, so they can build a good, solid middle class life that will give them and their families a better future. we're so going to do more to help black and latino entrepreneurs get access to capit so they have a re chance at turning their ideas into thriving businesses. now i think that's not only good for those entrepreneurs, it's good for their families, their workers and their communities. additionly, as part of our end to end reform of the crimin justice system, we're going to help people succeed when they return home from jail or prison. we're going to ban the box so they can be judged by their skills and tents, not by their pasts. and we will dedicate $5 ion to provide training and support to returning citizens so they can get a good paying job. and in my first 100 days, i'm going to introduce legislation for comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship. <applause> that's not only the right thing to do, every independent anysis shows it will add hundreds of ions of dollars to our economy. it will so keep families together. we need to bring hard wor people out of the shadows. ama has ways been a place where people from around the world work hard and apply their tents to aman growth and innovation in pursuit of their own dreams. so we're going to do everything we can to get this done.
<:> we need to build an economy and a future that every aman can be proud of and be a part of; an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. that will be my mission as president. these are just some of the highlights of our plan. i  you will go to my website, .com, to read the details, including how we are going to pay for everything i have proposed. and of course, i  you will compare what i'm proposing to what my opponent is t about. now here's one measure that you could use for that comparison. an independent economist recently ccula that if my agenda for jobs and growth is put into place, our economy would create at least 10.4 million jobs within four years. we actuly think it could be more than that. now, this economist so ran the numbers on  , including his disastrous and inne plan to round up and deport millions of hard wor immigrants. the result, according to mark zandi, who was the economic advisor to  mccain during his 2008 run for the presidency. the result of 's plans would be a lengthy recession, with 3.4 million jobs lost. now of course,  's problems go far beyond economics. at every turn, he stokes division and resentment. he says horrible things about one group of amans after another. he's hearkening back to the most shameful chapters of our history and appeing to the ugliest impulses of our society. you know the list, you've repor on it. he star this campaign by describing mexican immigrants as crimins and rapists. he re-tweets white nationists. he says a distinguished feder judge can't be trus because he is of mexican heritage. he tks about banning muslims from coming to the uni states, a land built on religious freedom. and yes, he so tks about curtailing press freedom as well. we need to stand up as a country and say that   doesn't represent who we are and what we believe. that is what my campaign, what   and i and everyone supporting us is doing everyday. and we're going to keep at it. because i believe, with l my heart, that ama is better than this. ama is better than  . we just launched an l spanish twitter account, because we want to bring as many amans as possible into this conversation. we've opened offices in every state, because we want to compete everywhere. we want to bring our message and our vision to l corners of our country. but we can't do it one. everyone, , , and independent, needs to stand up and speak out. now, i think, journists have a speci responsibility to our democracy in a e like this. as ida b. wells once said, people must know before they can act, and there is no educator to compare to the press. now, many of you are showing the way. it's a badge of honor when jorge ramos gets thrown out of a press conference for chlenging  . <applause> or when another news organization gets banned for reporting what he says. as jorge said, the best journism happens when you take a stand, when you denounce injustice. so, i  you'll keep cling it, like you see it. keeping holding l of us accountable. you know, i have laid out l these plans. and i'm well aware that i have been somees made fun of, for putting out these plans about the economy, and education and crimin justice reform and hethcare and gun safety measures and l the rest of it. but i do have this old fashioned idea, when you run for president you ought to tell the voters of ama what you would do as president. so, i am going to keep telling you what i would do, because i want you to hold me accountable, press and citizen ike. because the stakes are as high as they've ever been in our lifees. and we l have to do our part. so, thank you for what you do everyday. thank you for inviting me to address you today. and i look forward to ta some of your questions. thank you l very much.<applause>
<unknown: please welcome moderators, kristen welker, white house correspondent for nbc news, and lori montenegro, nation correspondent for telemundo. (applause)>
<welker: thank you. i rely appreciate it. good afternoon to l of you. what an honor to be here. and, it's fantastic to see so many people gathered here for this great conversation we're going to have with secretary . secretary , thank you for being here today. we rely appreciate it. usuly i am on the campaign trail with secretary  and we're at a very crowded event, so it's great to be able to have this conversation this afternoon.>
<montenegro: madam secretary, thank you so much for accompanying us. you know, so many questions, so little e, so i think we should just get right to it.>
<:> great.
<montenegro: you luded to the topic that i want to ask you about. latinos are very much concerned about the economy. they are concerned about education. they so believe in trustworthiness. i want to start with a topic that, i believe, will result, could, you know, tell the future of it after this election - it's immigration reform. many latinos are discouraged by the lack of immigration reform. they believe their vote has been taken for gran. we know what your position is. but, what i would like for you to do is to wk us through the steps.>
<:> right.
<montenegro: how will you get immigration reform, something that president  was not able to do, so that latinos can believe that something is going to happen, that their vote, again, is not being taken for gran considering that the house, at least the house, will remain under  control?>
<:> it's a great question, and it's one that i, obviously, have given much thought to because i am determined that we are going to achieve comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship. so, here is how i see it - first of l, we are going to start immediately. i want this to be a clear, high priority for my administration. we will be prepared to introduce legislation as quickly as we can do so. i am hoping that the outcome of the election, which i am wor hard to ensure a victory, will send a clear message to our  friends that it's e for them to quit standing in the way of immigration reform. if you remember, after the 2012 election, the  nation comee did what they cled an autopsy of their loss and concluded that they could not continue to deny the importance of immigration reform, and they urged s running for office to get on board. now, that hasn't turned out the way that they seemed to have d. we have, instead, a  nominee who has been virulently anti- immigrant. but, there's nothing like winning to change minds. and, i think, number one, we have a good chance of having a  senate if everybody does what i  they will do and vote for  candidates for the senate. i believe we will pick up some seats in the house and at least, if not take it back, narrow the numbers. if we move in the senate and then we demand that there be a vote in the house, because i am convinced that if the bipartisan  that had been achieved in the senate - remember when   was for it and people worked hard and achieved it? if it had been lowed to come for a vote in the house, it would have passed. so, i view the politic landscape as increasingly favorable to us ma this happen. i will so defend the president's executive actions. i, like you, was disappoin with the supreme court decision, but remember what it did, it sent the case back to be tried. it did not determine the case. so, daca and dapa are still ive.  has said one of his first acts as president would be to eliminate every executive order that president  has signed, including those on immigration issues. so, i will defend daca and dapa while i work vigorously for immigration reform.
<:> i have proposed an office of immigrant affairs for the white house so that we are able to answer questions and provide information and help people. i will take a very hard look at the deportation priorities. my priority are violent crimins, people suspec of any kind of connection to terrorism, not hard wor mothers and fathers and people who go to work, help support this economy, pay $12 ion a year into soci security, so we will take a hard look at that. we will close private detention centers, just like i want to end private prisons. we're going to close private detention centers. so, i have a very active agenda and we're going to be moving on it and i believe - and you know, obviously it depends upon the outcome of this election - which is why it's so important to register more voters. my campaign is trying to register 3 million more voters, convince people to turn out, because we're going to start early and we're going to be tenacious and absolutely commit to getting a positive result. i think the chances, once we win, will improve dramaticly.
<montenegro: madam secretary, you spoke about the deportations. president , some cl the deporter-in-chief, you have luded ready to your priority will be crimins, but how do you wk bk the deportations? they're people who are not crimins that are depor daily from this country. how do you wk back the deportations, comply with the law, and not inherit the title of deporter-in-chief, and at the e e, l these steps to help mobilize the latino community to the polls, many who still believe that their vote is taken for gran in 2008 and 2012, and then we have the e-mails from wikileaks that say that are the loyty b of the party?>
<:> well look, i think that the president was commit to immigration reform. it's one of the reasons we got the bi-partisan  passed in the senate. and what we didn't get though was enough politic pressure to turn that  into a voting issue in the 2010 midterm election. and here's one of my frustrations: people turn out to vote for presidenti elections, and then often don't for midterm elections. so, we lost - we lost a lot of the leverage because we lost the house of representatives. so, nothing happens easily or quickly in modern politics in ama, but here is what i know. as i have said, we are not going to be deporting hard wor people and break-up families. i've been on record for a year-and-a- hf about this and that will be how i direct the department of homeland security to act. we are going to push on immigration reform and i will need, not only a considerable vote in november, but i will need people across our country to make it clear to their elec representatives that they're going to be held accountable for how they are going to act on immigration reform. we put enough organizing and politic effort into this, i am opistic and i believe we can get this done. but it won't happen simply because we want it. and i can only say that i will give you my very best efforts and i will do everything i can to help elect a  senate. i've ready tked to some of my former colleagues in the senate. this will be fast-tracked. we ready know what can pass the senate because it happened just a few years ago. and if we then put enough pressure on the house, and do everything we can to rely force them to have to take what the senate passes, i think the outcome will be very different this e. that's my go and that's what i'm going to do every thing i can to achieve.
<montenegro: thank you madam secretary.>
<welker: madam secretary, your poll numbers went way up this week, and yet, the e-mail controversy was still in the headlines. so, i wan to give you the opportunity to respond. this week you told two separate news organizations that fbi director james comey said quote, "my answers were truthful, and that what i said is consistent with what i have told the aman people." that assertion, as you know, has been debunked by multiple news organizations which point out that director comey did say there's no indication that you lied to the fbi. but he didn't weigh-in on whether or not you were truthful to the aman people. so my question for you is, are you mischaracterizing director comey tesony? and is this not undercutting your efforts to rebuild trust with the aman people?>
<:> well kristin, i appreciate your as that because i was pointing out in both of those instances that the director comey had said that my answers in my fbi interview were truthful. that's rely the bottom line here. and i have said on -- during the interview and in many other occasions over the past months, that what i told the fbi -- which he said was truthful -- is consistent with what i have said publicly. so i may have short circui it and for that i -- you know, will try to clarify because i think -- you know,  wlace and i we're probably t past each other be -- because of course he could only tk to what i had told the fbi and i apprecia that. now i have acknowledged repey that using two e-mail accounts was a mistake i -- and i take responsibility for that, but i do think you know, having him say that my answers to the fbi were truthful and then i should quickly add what i said was consistent with what i had said publicly and -- and that's rely, sort of in my view, trying to tie both ends together.
<welker: is the one inconsistently though that you said you never sent or received classified materi, and he did say there were three e-mails, that were marked classified at the e. is that an inconsistency?>
<:> well, he -- here's -- here's what -- here are the facts behind that as well, you know that i preside i -- i sent over 30,000 e-mails to the state department that were work-rela e-mails. director comey said that only 3 out of 30,000 had anything resembling classified markers, what does that mean? well usuly, if any of you have ever served in the government, a classified document has a big heading on the top, which makes very clear what the classification is. and in questioning director comey made the point that the 3 e- mails out of the 30,000 did not have the appropriate mars and it was therefore reasonable to conclude that anyone, including myself, would have not -- suspec that they were classified. and in fact, i think that has been discussed by others who have said two out of those three were later explained by the state department not to have been, in any way, confidenti at the e that they were delivered. so that leaves the 100 out of 30,000 e-mails that director comey testified -- contained classified information but again, he acknowledged there were no mars on those 100 e-mails and so what we have here is pretty much what i have been saying throughout this whole year and -- and that is that i never sent or received anything that was marked "classified." now if in retrospect, which is what is behind the 100 number, if in retrospect some different agencies said but it should have been -- though it wasn't -- it should have been that's what the debate about -- is about. but director comey said there was absolutely no intention, on my part, to either ignore or in any way dismiss the importance of those documents because they weren't marked "classified," so that would have hard to do and i will go back to where i star. i regret using one account, i've taken responsibility for that but i'm pleased to be able to clarify and explain what i think the bottom line is on this.
<welker: and just very quickly before we get to our panel,   says this whole thing means that you can't be trus with nation security, today you are endorsed by former cia director  morell who says it's  who can't be trus, and he went so far as to indicate that that he's been termed (ph) by . do you agree with that assessment?>
<:> well, i had the great honor of wor with  morell, spending a lot of hours with him in the situation room in the white house. he is a consummate profession who has devo his entire profession career to protecting our country. i was honored to receive his endorsement, i will let his comments speak for themselves but i -- i rely apprecia his explaining as he did in his op-ed -- some of what's at stake in this election.
<montenegro: thank you madam secretary. i believe we have a question from one of our panelists in the previous - could you stand up please?>
<question: my question is, you've accused   of using racist and sexist language. what does it say about the electorate that so many amans are supporting him?>
<:> well, i -- i rely -- i rely believe that the core of his support -- i'm not going to speak for everyone who supports him because i think there have been some quite distressing statements coming out of his rlies and his supporters and who has igned themselves with him -- but i think the core of his support rely centers on the disappointment in the economy that so many amans feel. and what i have been saying is, you know, i'm going to bring this country together. i think we have three overarching gos: we need more economic opportunity, we need to protect our nation security, and we have got to work toward aman unity. so i have been trying to understand what it is that has driven people to support  and i've met with some people, i have listened to them. and so many of them are loo for an explanation as to why they lost the job they had for 18 years when the factory closed and nobody cared about them; what they're going to do when their whole life was spent mining co and they made $80 thousand a year; now they can barely find a job ma minimum wage; why the centers of so many old industri towns in ama are hollowed out and people are turning to opiates and heroin, and the list goes on. and that's what i've heard. so, i think, we have to recognize that of course, some of the appe is xenophobic and racist and misogynistic and offensive -- we have to acknowledge that. but let's not lose sight of the re pain that many amans are feeling because the economy has left them behind. so i have said -- i said it again in my acceptance speech last thursday, i want to be the president for l amans. i want to lift up and give everybody a chance to pursue their dreams. and that means people who are supporting him. when i went to west virginia, i knew that i was not gonna win west virginia, i can tell you that. and i was in a meeting with a group of folks, including a co miner who was incredibly emotion and t to me. and outside there was a big  protest going on, and one of the people at the protest, for goodness sakes, was blankenship who had just been convic of reckless indifference toward the wellbeing of his co miners -- causing deaths. so clearly the lines are pretty stark. but i have said, you know, i've got a plan for co country, i've got a plan for indian country, i've got a plan for inner cities, i've got a plan for rur communities. it's one of the reasons, as i said in my remarks, that i support jim clyburn's 10-20-30 propos, which would help l kinds of communities in ama. jim and i have tked about this. so we have to reject and stand up against the appes to the kind of bigotry and the use of bluster and bullying that we see coming from 's campaign, but let's not forget the re economic chlenges that too many amans of l backgrounds are facing today. so that's how i think about it and that's how i'm going to try in this campaign to respond to and rebuke l of the horrible things he says on a pretty regular basis -- but not about me, i could care less about that.
<:> but when he goes after individus; when he accuses a distinguished feder judge of mexican heritage of not being fair, when he insults a gold star family of a muslim aman who served in the military -- you know the list. i will stand up and cl him out on that. but i will so keep reaching out to amans of l races and ethnicities and where ever they live to tell them that i am not going to forget about them after this election. i'm going work my heart out to help every single person have a better job with a rising income, and make sure their kids get a good education, and everything else that i think they're owed here in ama.
<montenegro: great, wonderful. and i think we have another question from our panel.>
<question: madam secretary, ed o'keefe for the washington post. thank you for being here. and i think on behf of l of us, we encourage you to do this more often with reporters across the country. (applause) especily those news organizations that travel the country with you everywhere you go. a majority of voters consistently say frankly they don't like you and they don't trust you. and they say pretty much the e thing about  . either you or mr.  will be elec president. how would you lead a nation where a majority of amans mistrust you? and what extra responsibility might you have to show that you're up to the task?>
<:> well let me start by saying every e i have done a job, people have coun on me and trus me. and at the convention last week we highligh the fights of my life, starting as a lawyer for the children's defense fund, ta on the problem of juveniles in adult jails in south carolina, segrega academies so-cled in abama, fighting for kids with disabilities to get an education, and l the way through the work i did as senator after 9/11, and representing l of you as secretary of state. so there is - i - and i - i take this seriously. don't, you know, don't doubt that. i take it seriously. you know, it doesn't make me feel good when people say those things. and i recognize that i have work to do. but when i star running for the senate in new york, a lot of the e things were said. i won. i worked hard for the people of new york. and i was reelec with 67 percent of the vote after i demonstra that i would be on their side, i would fight for the people i represen. i ran a rely hard campaign against  , as i think everybody remembers. it got a little contentious from e to e. and to my surprise, he turns around, asks me to be secretary of state because he trus me. and then i served as secretary of state. and when i left, i had a 66 percent approv rating. so, ask yourselves... <applause> ...were 67 percent of the people in new york wrong? were 66 percent of the aman public wrong? or maybe, just maybe, when i'm actuly running for a job, there is a re efit to those on the other side in trying to stir up as much concern as possible. so, i take it seriously. and i'm going to work my heart out in this campaign and as president to produce results for people, to get the economy to work for everybody, not just those at the top, to do as much as i can to help people who, as i said earlier, may not even vote for me. because i think our country is at a crossroads election. president  said it extremely well both in what his speech discussed in the convention, what his press conferences since have poin out. this is a crossroads election. there is so much at stake. you can look at my record of public service. you can meet people and families who were efi by the children's heth insurance program. you can meet people who were efi by reforming the foster care and adoption system. you can meet first responders and survivors from 9/11 who were efi because i went to bat for them. you can meet nation guards members and their families who didn't have heth care unless they were deployed before i worked with s to fix that. you can go down a long list, and we'd be happy to provide it to you, of what i have done because i believe in public service. and i am proud that i've had the great, great opportunity to work on behf of giving more people a better life ever since i was right out of law school. so i'm just going to get up every day and make my case. and i think there'll be an opportunity for a lot of people to actuly hear it.
<question: madam secretary?>
<:> mmhmm.
<question: kevin merida. i'm editor-in-chief of the undefea at espn. what is the most meaningful conversation you've had with an african-aman friend?>
<:> oh my gosh. well, could i tell you that i am blessed to have a - a crew of great friends and i've had two chiefs of staff who were my african-aman women friends, maggie williams and cheryl mills. i have been blessed to have people by my side in politics like minyon moore who is one of the leaders of my campaign. i've had a great group of young people who i have been rely motiva by and, frankly, learned from. so i rely have had a lifee of friendship going back to my college years when one of my best friends was an african-aman student, so i can't compress into one conversation -- they've suppor me, they've chastised me, they've raised issues with me, they've tried to expand my music tastes. so we've had -- we've had a lot of -- we've had a lot of great, great es because of our friendships, so i can't rely pick one conversation out of, you know, 50 years of conversation and i don't want to embarrass my friends. peggy lewis is here, she just became the dean of communications at trinity washington and i want to congratulate her. donna brazile is here, she's our acting chair of the dnc. so i -- i guess i'll leave it at that. i think i'm going to - i'm going to respect the code of friendship silence but please know i've got a lot of great friends who have given me so much more.
<question: madam secretary, there's such little e and there's lots of questions and you're signing us to -- but i would be remiss. we're in a room full of latino journists and i have to ask you and give you an opportunity to respond and set the record clear. does the  party, does your campaign, take latino voters seriously, or are you ta them for gran that they will automaticly vote ?>
<:> well, i take them seriously, because i've had the great privilege of wor for many years with latino leaders, activists, business men and women. you know, just as i responded to the question, my first experience wor on behf of latinos was -- well, actuly, even before i was a leg services lawyer, through my church, i babysat latino kids on saturdays while their parents and older siblings went to the fields outside of my home in chicago, which used to be -- hard to believe now, miles of farmland. it was my first re lesson in how much more we l have in common. there i was, 11 or 12 years old, babysitting these little kids and at the end of the day the old ramshackle bus stopped at the end of the road and the parents and the older brothers and sisters got out and these little kids just broke loose and star running down that road with their arms outstretched cling for their mothers and their fathers and getting swept up in very tired arms. and then, when i was a little bit older, my church arranged exchanges with latino churches. we would go into the city of chicago, sit in church basements, tk about our lives and, again, it reinforced what, to me, was so much of a common sense of, you know, what we wan in our lives even though their lives and mine were very different. and as a leg services lawyer - as the chair of the leg services corporation, we expanded leg services into places against a lot of politic opposition.
<:> so, i feel very fortunate that i've had the chance to work with, and learn from, so many latinas and latinos across ama. when i ran for the senate, i worked closely with our elec representatives, both at the city, state, and nation level. i was honored that they rlied around to support me and were part of the great victory that we had in the primary in new york. so no, i don't take any voter for gran. and i particularly don't take any voter who is placing their trust and confidence in me for gran. because i am going to get up, as i said, every single day and work my heart out to get the results that i have told you, we're going to achieve together. and i know it's hard. i've been around as you l know, very well. i'm not new to this. it doesn't happen by hoping it happens, or wishing it happens. it happens by doing everything you possibly can and i am blessed to have such close wor relationships and friendships with latino leaders. tonight, at my house, we will be having a big event with latino business leaders, coming from around ama. and so, i'm going to do what i've ways done. you see, i think at the core of politic leadership is relationship. you've got to build relationships with individus and communities. i know that doesn't happen by just as for it. it happens because you work hard to achieve it. so i'm going to do everything i can to make sure that any latino voter who votes for me, knows that i'm going to be doing my best to deliver on everything that i've said. and i will tell you as we go ong, what the chlenges are, because i may need to ask your help. i may need you to put pressure on elec officis. i may need you to flood the internet, or flood the old fashioned mailbox of elec representatives. so they know people are watching. but that's how we're going to get it done. and i'm actuly pretty confident and opistic about that. so i  that people will take this election seriously, because i sure take you seriously. and together i think we can create the kind of future that everyone of our kids and gkids deserves. thank you l very much.
<welker: secretary , we are out of e. we want to thank you very much. everyone please, give a big round of applause for secretary  for coming and answering our questions. we rely appreciate it, and (inaudible) your e. thank you very much.><title="  (d), presidenti candidate, remarks at rly in omaha, ne">
<date:"2016-08-01">
<(joined in progress)   (d)>
<presidenti candidate: to have a chance to stand before ama and to tell their stories, because ama is story after story. and what i want is to provide the opportunity and the support so that every single aman can live his or her best story, can make the most of your own god-given potenti. (cheering and applause)>
<:> and after the convention was over, starting friday morning,   and his wonderful wife, anne, and  i and i got on a bus and star traveling across pennsylvania into ohio. <crosstk>
<:> we visi factories, sml towns, bigger cities. we met with so many hardwor people who told us their stories, and they proved every day that   is wrong. ama is not weak. <cheering and applause>
<:> i agree with . this is the greatest nation on earth and our best days are still ahead of us. <cheering and applause>
<:> now, that doesn't mean we don't have chlenges and problems. of course we do, right here at home and around the world. [18:20:00] but i don't believe there is anything that amans can't do if we make up our minds, because you know why? we are stronger together. <cheering and applause>
<:> but, as  said, too many people haven't gotten a raise since the great crash. there's too much inequity and too little opportunity. washington is paryzed by speci interests and big money. but don't let anyone tell you we don't have what it takes if we make up our minds to solve our problems. and don't believe anyone who tells you, "i one can fix it." <laughter> <cheering and applause>
<:> when   said that in his convention speech, i did a bit of a ment double-take. i listened to that speech, 75 minutes of it, and it was like he was t about a different country, forgetting about everyone in ama who gets up every day and works together, people who make a difference every single day. <cheering and applause>
<:> he's forgetting our troops on the front lines. he's forgetting police officers and firefighters who run toward danger. he's forgetting about doctors and nurses who save lives, and teachers who change lives. he's forgetting about unions who fight for wor families and communities that pull together through hard es. <cheering and applause>
<:> i grew up in the midwest. i was born in chicago, raised outside of chicago. my dad was a sml businessman. i mean rely sml. it was mostly just him and occasionly my mother, my brothers and me, and somees he would hire helpers to get one of his orders out because he prin fabrics to be made into draperies, and he had a print plant with long tables. he was a very self-reliant man. but i don't think he, for a minute, through his growing up in scranton, pennsylvania, through his service as a chief petty officer in the navy, through his work and business or his raising our family, ever thought to himself, i one can fix it. that's just not the way we were raised. we were raised to get together. we were raised to follow up on the extraordinary example of our founders 240 years ago in philadelphia, who came together. you see that across nebraska. you see people wor. i have been in omaha. i have visi projects, schools, other kinds of nonprofits and institutions where people are wor together. that's what we do in ama. we see a problem and we say, we will fix it together. and that's what we're going to do when we get the white house to move us forward in the direction we need to go. <cheering and applause>
<:> now, i know how hard the great recession was. it was a terrible e, the worst financi crisis since the great depression. and people in nebraska worked hard to come back. i think it was a terrible moment. it could have gotten even worse. i believe that a lot of difficult decisions had to be made, and we have come back from that terrible financi crisis. thanks to the hard work of nebraskans, amans and president , we got out of the ditch we were in. <cheering and applause>
<:> so, i think if we're going to solve the problems we have, we ought to be rely clear about where we have come from. we now have 15 million new jobs that have been crea in the last seven-and-a-hf years. we now have 20 million more amans who have access to heth care. <cheering and applause> [18:25:15]
<:> we have the highest percentage ever in our history of young people w across graduation stages to get their high school diplomas. <cheering and applause>
<:> so i know we have made progress, but i know we shouldn't be satisfied. as amans, we ways have to be as ourselves what can we do better, how can we make more progress, how can we help more people? we're still facing tough chlenges that developed long before the recession and they have stayed with us. the economy is not wor the way it should for everyone. <crosstk>
<:> starting in iowa back in april of 2015 until the convention this week, i have met so many people who tell me, you know, they don't expect a handout. they don't even expect, you know, life to be easy. but they don't think it should be this hard. it shouldn't be that people feel like they're out there on their own, like no one cares about them, that they're not respec, that the dignity of their job is not something that we l support. i know a lot of people who feel that way. i bet there are some in this gymnasium who feel that way. well, here's what i want you to know. you deserve a president who will get up every single day in the white house and do everything she can to give you the chance you deserve to have. <cheering and applause>
<audience: ! ! ! !>
<:> and i will quickly add, as important as it is to have someone who gets what you're going through, i think it's so rely important that that person tells you what her plans are for producing results. <cheering and applause>
<:> so, if you saw what i said on thursday night, let me give you the short, punchier version. and it starts by ma clear we do have to rewrite the rules so that our economy works for everyone, not just those at the top. <cheering and applause> my overriding mission as president will be to do everything i can to help our country create more jobs with rising incomes. i believe anyone willing to work hard should be able to find a job that pays well, enough to support a family. <cheering and applause>
<:> so, in my first 100 days, we are going to break through the gridlock in washington and make the biggest investment in new good-paying jobs since world war ii. we are going to make the boldest investment in aman infrastructure since the highway system. <cheering and applause>
<:>  read you some of the quotes from  . well, he has said so many things that i profoundly, vehemently disagree with. and, for the life of me, i don't know why someone runs to be president of the uni states who thinks and says we never win anymore, our country is full of losers. well, he could not be more wrong. we are going to fix and build the roads, the bridges, the tunnels, the ports, the airports, the water systems we need. <cheering and applause>
<:> and i want to say a particular word to any of you here from rur nebraska. we are going to bring diverse economic development to rur communities to support our farmers and others in sml towns who keep ama going. <cheering and applause>
<:> and one specific way we will do that is to make sure we have an electric grid that can take and distribute energy from clean renewable sources - <cheering and applause>
<:> in fact, i know because i've seen them in the crowd. there are few people from iowa here today. and your neighbor iowa is ready getting one-third of its electricity from clean energy, primarily wind energy. <cheering and applause>
<:> and what i love about them is they're so giving farmers extra income for hosting the turbines on their farm, and they are ta abandoned factories and actuly assembling the wind turbines, putting people to work in iowa to produce the energy for iowa. <cheering and applause>
<:> the other thing we're going to do is finish the job of building out broadband so everybody in ama, no matter where you live, has access to the internet. <cheering and applause> <ends in progress><title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at the aman legion nation convention (sd)">
<date:"2016-08-31">
<:> good afternoon. i am deligh to have this great honor of being here and having this opportunity to address you. i want to thank the nation commander -- thank you, commander barnett. i want to thank verna jones, your executive director, and dewey mothe <ph>, <inaudible> commander. and i want to thank a long-e friend and adviser to me, someone whom i am very grateful to, and that is your nation treasurer  buskirk. most of l, thanks to you, l the legionnaires here and across ama. thanks for your service in our armed forces. you wore the uniform. you took an oath. you put your life on the line to protect the greatest country on earth. <applause> there are some who may argue with that, but not around me.
<:> when you came home, you joined the aman legion and by doing so, you kept serving. just look at what the legion does. you care for wounded warriors. you help raise the next generation of aman patriots. i want to give a speci shout out to boys nation, which meant so much to my husband when he was growing up. and when i told him i was coming here today, he said you've got to mention boys nation. i told him i would, but i so have to mention girls nation too. <applause> i want to thank your auxiliary, the world's largest women's patriotic service organization. <applause> i was honored to receive the auxiliary's public spirit award in 1997. and i have great admiration for the work you do. as a daughter of a veteran, as a proud aman, i am grateful to you l. now i'm not going to tk a lot about politics today, but i do want to say this. whoever ama elects this fl, won't just be our next president, that person will be our next commander in chief. and every person in this room understands how great a responsibility that is. now i know some of you are s and some of you are s and some of you are independents. i suppose there are some of you who've never vo for a  before. i get that. my dad was a rock red , but i learned at our dinner table that we can disagree without being disagreeable. <applause> i want you to know, if i am fortunate enough to win this election. i will be a president for s, s, independents, for people who vote for me, for people who don't, for l amans. that is what i think we need. we need to unify our country and go forward into the future with confidence and opism. <applause> today i want you to know a little bit about where i stand and how i see the world and ama's place in it. i spent four years as your secretary of state, eight years before that as senator from the great state of new york, six years on the senate armed services comee. if there's one core belief that has guided and inspired me every step of the way, it is this. the uni states is an exception nation. i believe we are still 's last, best  of earth. we're still reagan's shining city on a hill. we're still robert kennedy's great, unselfish, compassionate country. and it's not just that we have the greatest military or that our economy is larger than any on earth. it's so the strength of our vues, the strength of the aman people. everyone who works harder, dreams bigger and never, ever stops trying to make our country and the world a better place. and part of what makes ama an exception nation, is that we are so an indispensable nation. in fact, we are the indispensable nation. people l over the world look to us and follow our lead. my friends, we are so lucky to be amans. it is an extraordinary blessing. it's why so many people, from so many places, want to be amans too. but it's so a serious responsibility. the decisions we make and the actions we take, even the actions we don't take, affect millions even ions of lives.
<:> you know that; you've seen it. now l of this may seem evident, especily to men and women who have worn the uniform. you may wonder how anyone could disagree. but, in fact, my opponent in this race has said very clearly that he thinks aman exceptionism is insulting to the rest of the world. in fact, when  , of l people, criticized aman exceptionism, my opponent agreed with him, saying, and i quote, "if you're in russia, you don't want to hear that ama is exception." well maybe you don't want to hear it, but that doesn't mean it's not true. my opponent misses something important. when we say ama is exception, it doesn't mean that people from other places don't feel deep nation pride, just like we do. it means that we recognize ama's unique and unparleled ability to be a force for peace and progress, a champion for freedom and opportunity. our power comes with a responsibility to lead, humbly, thoughtfully, and with a fierce commitment to our vues. because, when ama fails to lead, we leave a vacuum that either causes chaos or other countries or networks rush in to fill the void. so no matter how hard it gets, no matter how great the chlenge, ama must lead. the question is how we lead. what kind of ideas, strategies, and tactics we bring to our leadership. aman leadership means standing with our lies because our network of lies is part of what makes us exception. no other country in the world has liances like ours. russia and china have nothing close. we stand with our lies because generations of aman troops fought and died to secure those bonds, and because they deliver for us every day. our lies share intelligence on terrorists. they provide staging areas for our military so we can respond quickly to events on the other side of the world. other nations' soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines often fight side by side with ours. some of you may have served and fought ongside men and women from other countries. you say them in action. you know how important these bonds are to our security. threatening to wk away from our liances, ignoring the importance that they still are to us, is not only wrong, it's dangerous. if i'm -- if i'm your president, our friends will ways know ama will have your backs, and we expect you to have ours. aman leadership means bringing the world together to solve glob problems, as only we can. the uni states built the internation coition against isis. now we're wor with partners to take back territory and defeat them without getting drawn in to a ground war. we brought the world together to impose sanctions on iran and secure a de that puts a lid on iran's nuclear program, without firing a single shot. you don't build a coition by insulting our friends or acting like a loose cannon. you do it by putting in the slow, hard work of building relationships. getting countries wor together was my job every day as your secretary of state. it's more than a photo op. it takes consistency and reliability.
<:> actuly, it's just like building person relationships. people have to get to know that they can count on you; that you won't say one thing one day and something totly different the next. and it certainly takes more than trying to make up for a year of insults and insinuations by dropping in on our neighbors for a few hours and then flying home again. that is not how it works. aman leadership means leading with our vues in pursuance of our interests, in protection of our security. at our best the uni states is the glob force for freedom, justice and n dignity. we celebrate our diversity. <applause> as a source of nation strength, just look at our armed forces which represents l races, religions, ethnicities and yes, immigrants from other countries l fighting for the red, white and blue. we stand up to regimes that abuse n rights. we stand up for religious and ethnic minorities, for women, for people with disabilities and we comport ourselves with honor. there's no better proof of that than what our navy ses did during the raid to kill oa bin laden. <applause> i was deeply honored to be part of that sml group advising the president. i brought to those discussions my experience as a senator from new york on 9/11. and my commitment to do whatever i could in whatever role i had to bring bin laden to justice. you've l seen the picture of us crowded into the smler situation room watching the video screen, every second coun. one of the copters misgauged how high the wl was around the courtyard, clipped the tail, getting disabled. it didn't stop the ses from rushing out, getting into the compound, returning fire against bin laden's body guards, ta on his adult son and finly bin laden himself. but the ses knew that they had to destroy the helicopter before they left. i was holding my breath through the entire operation because at anye pakistani soldiers could have arrived. this compound was in a military garrisoned city, actuly the home of their military academy. so yes, every second coun, but still our ses took the e to move the women and children, bin laden's family members, to safety before destroying the helicopter. that is what honor looks like, that is ama at our best. <applause> maybe the soldiers of other nations wouldn't have bothered, or maybe they'd have taken revenge on those family members of terrorists, but that is not who we are. and anyone who doesn't understand that doesn't understand what makes our nation great. and let me say something else about aman greatness, there's no question we face re threats and re enemies that we need to confront and defeat. but my opponent is wrong when he says ama is no longer great. consider the record of the past either years.
<:> in 2009 our glob economy was collapsing, oa bin laden was plotting, we had more than 180,000 troops fighting two wars, iran was racing toward a nuclear weapon, many of our lies were less supportive of aman leadership than they had been in decades. look where we are now. we have pulled the glob economy out of free-fl thanks to the hard work and sacrifice of the aman people. we have redeployed well over 100,000 troops from iraq and afghanistan so they can go home, rest, and train for future contingencies. we cut off iran's path to a nuclear weapon. we convinced russia to reduce their nuclear weapons arsen. we protec our ly israel, and we brought oa bin laden to justice. we did that. we amans did l of that, wor together across party lines. and there is no question, we have more work to do, but let's be clear -- we are stronger together. and it will be my go if i am fortunate enough to be your president, to bring people back together again, to set our gos and move forward to achieve them. <applause> i know that we can't cozy up to dictators. we have to stand up to them. we can't contain isis, we must defeat them, and we will. we will do whatever is necessary for as long as it takes to bring them to justice, and end their reign of terror once and for l. this election is about how to make things better. now make no mistake, i believe we do have better days ahead. but things could so get worse: if more countries get nuclear weapons, if we abandon our lies, if our commander-in-chief orders our military to break the laws and commit torture or murder terrorists' family members. that is why it is so critic we get this right. and let me underscore what i have said throughout this campaign, we must only send our troops into harm's way as a last resort, not a first choice. that must be our bedrock principle. <applause> but we must be able to act decisively on our own when we need to. i completely reject anyone, including my opponent, who cls the aman military, and i quote, "a disaster." that is an insult to the men and women serving today and l who have served before who put their lives on the line. it's just not true. we do have more work to do to continue to have the strongest, most effective military in the world. i know this is something that matters a great de to everyone in this room. and here is what we have to do. we cannot lose our military edge, and that means giving the pentagon the stable, predictable funding it needs to make smart investments. <applause> you've heard of a sequester, the arbitrary caps that congress has imposed on our entire government for the past sever years. look, i am l for cutting the fat out of the budget and ma sure we stretch our dollars. i am proud of the fact that when my husband left office, we had a banced budget and a surplus. and i  that someday we can get back to doing that. but we cannot impose arbitrary limits on something as important as our military. that makes no sense at l. the sequester makes our country less secure. let's end it and get a budget de that supports ama's military, our families, and our country. and let's make reform a priority so that the defense department spends its budget on the right things. and by the way, the last thing we need is a president who brings more name-cling and temper tantrums to washington. we've got to get people listening to each other again, getting both parties actuly to work together.
<:> let's modernize our army, and marines, our navy, and air force, our coast guard. we need to respond to evolving threats from states like russia, china, iran, and north korea from networks, crimin and terrorist networks like isis. we need a military that is ready and agile so it can meet the full range of threats, and operate on short notice across every domain, not just land, sea, air and space, but so cyberspace. we'll invest in new technology so new breakthrough's can transform our military, just as steth, precision weapons and advance communications did in the past. we'll make a renewed push to reduce the world's nuclear weapons. because that does make us l safer. and we'll step up our efforts to secure nuclear materi around the world and stop terrorists from acquiring or using weapons of mass destruction. one of the first things i will do as president, is to cl for a new nuclear posture review. we have to make sure that ama's arsen is prepared to meet future threats. we'll invest in the next frontier of military engagement, protecting u.s. interests in outer space and cyberspace. you've seen reports. russia's hacked into a lot of things. china's hacked into a lot of things. russia even hacked into the  nation comee, maybe even some state election systems. so, we've got to step up our game. make sure we are well defended and able to take the fight to those who go after us. as president, i will make it clear, that the uni states will treat cyber attacks just like any other attack. we will be ready with serious politic, economic and military responses. and we're going to invest in protecting our government networks and our nation infrastructure. i want us to lead the world in setting the rules of cyberspace. if ama doesn't, others will. so in short, we have to be ready to win today's fights and tomorrow's. but you know that the most important thing isn't the size of our military or the sophistication of our weapons. the most important thing is our people, the men and women who put on the uniform and serve. we need to... <applause> we need to take a hard look at our military's personnel policies to make sure we are doing everything to attract and keep the best and the brightest who volunteer. we need to support not only them, but so their families. and as president, i will never forget the debt we owe to our veterans and your families who so served. i will never, ever disrespect gold star families who've made the ulate sacrifice for our nation. <applause> or prisoners of war who endured so much in our name. <applause> to insult them is, just so wrong. and it says a lot about the person doing the insulting. in the senate, i worked with s to increase the efit paid to gold star families, to expand access to military heth insurance, to make sure l members of the guard and reserves and their families have access to heth efits. whether they're deployed or training at home. i fought successfully to amend the 2007 defense appropriations act. to establish a training program for family caregivers helping loved ones with traumatic brain injuries. senator  mccain and i joined forces to personly raise money for a state of the art rehab facility at brooke army medic center in san antonio, to help seriously wounded service members coming home from iraq and afghanistan. like you, i was outraged by the scands at v.a. hospits. people waiting for months or years for wheelchairs and basic medications. some even dying while waiting for an appointment. i know that you heard from secretary mc and i know how hard he and his team are wor. we are going to build a 21st century department of veterans affairs that delivers world-class care, and we are not going to let anyone privatize the v.a. we're going to reform and strengthen it, not privatize it.<applause>
<:> we will ensure access to ely quity care for l of our veterans; improve care for women, who are often underserved; identify and treat l wounds of war, visible and invisible, including agent orange and gulf war syndrome, and traumatic brain injury and ptsd. we will end the epidemic of veteran suicides by expanding access to ment heth care and fighting the stigma that isolates too many of our veterans from getting the care that they need. <applause> i feel passionately about this because i have looked into the eyes of too many family members who have lost their loved one to suicide. that's why just two days ago, when i released my plan to improve ment heth services for l amans, i included a specific section about more help for veterans and their families because we know too many aren't getting the help they need right now. we've got to serve them, just as they served us. we are so going to help more veterans loo for jobs, with expanded tax credits for businesses that hire veterans. more support to veterans who want to start their own businesses. and ma it easier for veterans to get credit for the skills they learned while serving. <applause> and we will crack down on for-profit schools and companies that prey on or discriminate against service members, veterans, or military families. they should be ashamed of themselves, and we're going to hold them accountable. we will so work closely with the aman legion to clean up and expedite the appes process. efits should be delivered as quickly as possible, and appes should be decided as expeditiously as possible. i thank you for the work you are doing on that. now a lot of what i have mentioned has support from s and s. maintaining our military and caring for our veterans should never be a partisan issue. defending aman exceptionism should ways be above politics. but this is not a norm election. the debates are not the norm disagreements between s and s. so i  you will listen carefully to what my opponent and i propose, consider our plans and the vues behind them. and after you've given us both a fair hearing, i  you will join the growing number of amans, s, s, and independents, who are supporting our vision for the kind of future that we want for our country. this election shouldn't be about ideology. it's not just about differences over policy. it truly is about who has the experience and the temperament to serve as president and commander-in-chief. just three weeks ago 50  nation security experts, who served in prior  administrations, wrote a letter saying that they will not vote for   because he would be, in their words, the most reckless president in aman history. <applause> by contrast, i am deeply honored to have so many retired military leaders bac me, ong with these  experts. i'm suppor by people on both sides of the aisle and both sides of the debates that have defined our foreign policy for the last 30 years. they know i believe in a bipartisan foreign policy. they know i believe we should be finding ways to bring our country together around nation security, our role in the world, our vues. they know they can count on me to do that. and what matters to them is that we make the right choice in november.
<:> the stakes this fl are as high as any election in our lifees. so i'm going to keep raising these issues, keep telling people where i stand, laying out plans for what i'd do if elec. i have to tell you it is a little funny to me, i get criticized for having so many plans. people say, oh there she goes with another plan about ment heth, about veterans. well i have this old fashioned idea if i'm as for your vote for president i should tell you what i want to do as your president. so yes, i have laid out plans and i'm going to work my heart out to implement those plans. and if i win this fl no one will work harder for our troops, our veterans, and our military families. this is person to me, starting with my dad. his name was hugh rodham, he enlis in the navy shortly after pearl harbor. he became a chief petty officer at great lakes north of chicago responsible for training thousands of young sailors before they shipped out to sea, mostly to the pacific theater. after my dad died i received letters from men who had served under him, i treasure them to this day. my father told me how emotion he got when he accompanied his trainees to the west coast and saw those young sailors get onboard their ships. he knew some of them wouldn't survive. but he believed in their cause, he believed in them, and they went to serve to protect our country. they knew their country needed them. over the course of the last years i've so had the privilege of wor with, helping and supporting so many active duty and retired military members and families. first as first lady then as senator, then as secretary of state. whenever i would go anywhere representing you and be privileged to meet with the men and women who serve our country. i would sit down if we had a chance and hear what was on their minds, would shake hands and take pictures, somees bring messages back to their loved ones. and i too knew that some of those young men and women wouldn't be coming home either. it's that kind of courage and honor that our men and women in uniform demonstrate every single day. <applause> i will never forget that. and i would expect the aman legion to be my partner in the white house, to make sure i never do. you and l our veterans deserve nothing less. our respect, our thanks, but you so disserve a country that honors your service, not just with words but with deeds. that's why the aman legion is so critic, wor everyday to make sure ama lives up to that standard. i will be doing that work right ongside you if i am given the great honor to serve as your president and commander in chief. thank you l, god bless you, and god bless the uni states of ama. thank you. <applause>
<unknown: secretary , i'd love to give you one of our medlions. inscribed are the words "for god and country." thank you for your kind words to our veterans, your support of veterans, and we wish you the very best.>
<:> thank you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in detroit, michigan (24)">
<date:"2016-11-04">
<:> thank you. i'll tell you, i am so glad to be back in michigan. <cheers> and that introduction, i'm just still vibrating from it. i thank my longe friend, reverend wendell , for giving us some of the best lines that we've had in the whole campaign. thank you, wendell. <cheers> you know, there's something speci about this place, and some of you may have recognized the song that was playing that when i came in, an amazing anthem sung by the ten andra day, cled "rise up." <cheers> and that is what detroit is doing. you are rising up. and that is exactly what we're going to do in ama. we're going to rise up and make sure the aman dream is big enough for everyone. <cheers> i'm loo forward to wor with the great team you have here in detroit and in michigan. i want to thank your senators, senator debbie staow and senator  s. <cheers> i want to thank your members of congress, congressman  conyers, sandy levin, congressman brenda  and debbie dingell. i want to thank your great mayor, mayor  duggan. thank you. <cheers> wayne county executive  evans, sheriff nie napoleon, the president of the uaw,  williams. <cheers> longe friends and former colleagues of mine, former senator carl levin and his wife barbara are here. and to l who are present today, i was deligh that my friend and my supporter, mark cuban could be here because he's not only a re ionaire... <laughter> ... he's actuly shared his profits with his employees. <cheers> now are you ready to vote on tuesday? <cheers> are you ready to volunteer to get everybody out to vote? <cheers> are you ready to choose our next president and commander-in- chief? <cheers> did any of you see the three debates that we had? well, i spent four and a hf hours standing next to  , proving once and for l i have the stamina to be the next president. <cheers> he kept saying a lot of unusu things, didn't he? and you know, there's a certain preparation you do to be ready for those debates, and of course i did it because i think you should prepare to be president of the uni states. <cheers> and i did practice my composure. people said to me, well, how did you do that? the things he was saying. and then that second debate, when he was following you around and lurching over you. i said, well, i did practice. and i had my friends and my family just spend hours saying terrible things to me. so i was ready. but he would say, well, what have you done for 30 years? and you know, i don't want to brag. <cheers> but i do think, i do think it matters what you've done, and especily what you've done that maybe improves somebody else's life, right? and one of the great joys of this campaign has been traveling around our country meeting people who have been affec by what we've been doing. for example, as first lady i helped create the children's heth insurance program, which covers 8 million kids. <cheers> and these are families that, you know, they are not poor families, they are wor people, but they don't make enough money and they don't work for somebody who provides insurance. and so very often their kids were being affec by not getting the hethcare they should have had. i met a woman whose baby daughter, when she was born, was diagnosed as totly deaf. and the doctor said, you know, we're sorry, there's rely nothing we can do for her. but this mother, like many mothers i know, did not take that for an answer, right? she got on the internet, she began to research, and she found that there were treatments that she could maybe provide to her little daughter, but they were expensive and she and her husband didn't have that kind of money and they didn't have insurance. she was at her doctor's office and just so distraught, and the doctor said, well, there's this new thing cled the children's heth insurance program. maybe you should look into it. turned out she was eligible. she signed up. she star getting her daughter the best hethcare that every child in this country should be able to have, by the way. <cheers> and when i was in north carolina, i heard about her and got to meet her. but more than that, i met her daughter, who tked to me and who just gradua from college, because she got the heth care and she got the treatment that she deserved to have. <cheers> i'll tell you what. that is how i judge my last 30 years. have i done something to help somebody else? i am well aware of the blessings that i have had, and i want to be sure that l of us figure out a way to pay it forward, make it possible for more families, more kids to have the chance to live up to their own god-given potenti. <cheers> and i was a senator in new york on 9/11, so i know what can happen, the evil and the hatred of terrorism. i saw it, and i spent my e helping to rebuild new york city and helping to get hethcare for the brave first responders who ran toward danger, not away from it. our police, our firefighters, our emts. and i'll tell you who else we got covered. we got construction workers who ran with their supplies and their tools, and i see one right out there, who knows exactly what i'm t about. <cheers> l across the city people were leaving their jobsites and rushing toward danger. that was ama at its best, and don't ever forget what we are capable of being, who we are. we are not afraid. we are brave, courageous people who will do our best if given the chance. <cheers> and as your secretary of state, i went to 112 countries, negotia cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons, stood up for n rights and women's rights and workers' rights and lgbt rights. <cheers> i'm telling you this because i want you to know that i will do everything i can. if i am honored to be your president, i will get up every day in that white house and i will go to work for you and your families to make it possible for you to have the chances and the opportunities you deserve to have. <cheers> i want you to have a candidate you can vote for, not just someone to vote against. that's why   and i have run a campaign based on ideas and issues, not insults. <cheers> because if you rely take a look at what's at stake in this election, it is a choice between two very different visions for ama. i've got to say, when i hear my opponent tk about ama, i don't recognize the country he's t about. it is so dark, so divisive, so hateful. that is not the ama that i believe in. i believe that we should have a confident, opistic, inclusive vision of where we're going and how we're going to get there. <cheers> i love our country and i believe in the aman people, and i think there's nothing we can't achieve if we work together and we set some gos and we go after them. \ <cheers> see, we believe in an ama that is bighear, not sml minded. we believe in an ama that is ready great but can be greater if we do our part. <cheers> and we believe ama is great because ama is good. never forget that. if we lift each other up and not tear each other down, we can go even further. and i believe with l my heart. that's why the slogan of my campaign sums it up, that we are stronger together. <cheers> and so, come next january 20th, ama is going to have a new president. <cheers> i know that a lot of people say that they want change. well, let me tell you this. change is inevitable. there will be change. the question is what kind of change are we going to have. <cheers> are we going to build a stronger, fairer, better country? or are we going to fear the future and each other? i sure  not. that is not the ama that i believe we are. so here's what i want to ask you to do. i want you to tk to your friends and your family, your neighbors. michigan is one of these states that doesn't have early voting. i've been l over the country, going to states that are ready voting. in fact, about 31 <million> to 32 million people have ready vo in those states. but michigan votes on tuesday. <cheers> and i imagine, i imagine there are some of you who know people who say they're going to vote for  , right? <boos> i know. i understand that. i mean, i would  you'd try to stage an intervention before it's too late. <cheers> but maybe you can ask them with you to imagine, imagine january 20th, 2017, and imagine that my opponent is ta the oath of office in front of the capitol. <boos> imagine having a president who demeans women and mocks the disabled. who insults african-amans and latinos and muslims. <boos> who personly engages in busting unions and preventing people from having the right to bargain collectively. <boos> now the truth is, we rely don't have to imagine what that would be like because everything he has said and done, both in his career and in this campaign, tells you what could happen. you know,  , who says so many wise and wonderful things... <cheers> she said the presidency doesn't change who you are. it reves who you are. and i think we've seen who   is. maya angelou, another great aman, maya angelou said, when someone shows you who he is, believe him the first e. <cheers> and if my opponent were to win, we would have a president who has only ever been in it for himself. just last year he said again it wouldn't have mattered if we'd rescued the auto industry or let it go bankrupt. <boos> what is he t about? i'm proud that president  saved the auto industry. <cheers> and i'm even prouder that because of the hard work of people in detroit and across michigan and the midwest, the u.s. auto industry just had its best year ever. <cheers> if  wins the election, we have a president who wants to ban every muslim in the world from coming to visit the uni states. <boos> we are a country founded our religious freedom. that runs contrary to our constitution. we would have a president who has said repey that he thinks the lives of the black people are l about crime and poverty and despair. <boos> he has no idea about the strength of the black church in the vibrancy of black-owned businesses, the excellence of historicly black colleges and universities. <cheers> he seems to know nothing about the rise of a new generation of black activists and the success of black leaders in every field. <cheers> i think he needs a visit from reverend wendell , don't you? <cheers> yesterday in north carolina i was honored to stand with a woman named may brown wiggins. decades ago she was a hard-wor nurse in new york city. she was loo for an apartment that she could afford to rent, but   and his father fred turned her away. you see, whenever african-amans tried to rent  apartments, their application was marked with a c, c for colored. <boos> and that didn't sit very well with may, so she went to the authorities, and eventuly the department of justice sued the s for housing discrimination. <cheers> and though they settled, they wouldn't change. so the government had to take them back to court. that's a pattern. this is what happens e and e again with my opponent. if he were to win, he would be in charge of the feder housing department. if he doesn't respect l amans now, how can we trust him to serve l amans in the future? <cheers> he has such a casu disregard of our constitution. he doesn't seem to understand that the rule of law, that we rely are a nation of laws, not men. <cheers> here's the latest example. there is a terrible crime back in 1990 in new york city. it was cled the centr park five. maybe some of you have heard of it. there were five black and latino kids, some as young as 14. they were wrongfully convic, and they were in prison, where they spent years.   took out full-page ads cling for the death penty for the kids. and even after they were exonera by dna evidence, as someone else confessed to that terrible crime,  actuly said they should still be in prison. <boos> it doesn't matter if you are innocent. if he decides that you should be in prison or you should be locked up. <laughter, cheers> no wonder he admires  , because that's exactly what  does to his people. <cheers> so we can't trust him with our constitution. we can't trust him to obey the rule of law. he has shown us who he is. now we have to decide who we are. so let me paint you a different picture. here's what we're going to do together if we win this election on tuesday night. <cheers> we have three big, three big chlenges. number one, we've got to get the economy wor for everyone, not just those at the top. <cheers> number two, we've got to keep our country safe and we have to work with our lies to lead the world with strength and intelligence for peace and prosperity. <cheers> and number three, we've got to bring our country together. we've got to overcome these divides. we have to he our nation. and i  that you will help me meet l three of those chlenges. <cheers> i have said repey that we're going to take on discrimination and bigotry because any e we hold somebody back, it can lead to holding other people back. we can't accept as norm what we're seeing across our country because of his campaign. a church in mississippi was burned this week. someone pain "vote " on the side and then set it on fire. <boos> we can't let that happen. what happened in flint, michigan, should not be norm or acceptable. <cheers, applause> our kids should be guaranteed clean air and clean water. those are basics. and we've got to do everything we can to make sure that we take care of our children. and it's important for us to recognize that when i tk about getting the economy to work for everybody, that means i want the biggest jobs program since world war ii. infrastructure. advanced manufacturing. clean, renewable energy technology. <cheers> some people say we can't do that. well, i'm telling you they are wrong. they are wrong. we have the best workers, the most productive workers. we're going to give them more to work on, more products to produce. <cheers> and we're going to do more for sml business because sml business is the backbone of so many communities. <cheers> i want everybody to have the chance to succeed in ama. that means we're going to dismantle the so-cled school to prison pipeline and replace it with a cradle to college pipeline. <cheers> we're going to make sure that every child has a chance to go to a good school, with good teachers, no matter what zip code that child lives in. <cheers> and i want to start with our youngest kids, with prekindergarten program. and then i want to be able to partner with our teachers. we've got to have high expectations and get results in helping our children. and i want to be sure that we put technic education back into high school because there are good jobs out there waiting for young people with the skills to do them. <cheers> it will be important that we create an environment in which our police and our communities can work together and trust each other. i believe we are l safer when everyone has respect for the law and everyone is respec by the law, and that's what we're going to work for. <cheers> we're so going to take commonsense steps to reduce gun violence and save lives. <cheers> this has nothing to do with the scare tactics coming from my opponent. have you seen he's starting to wear a camo hat now? rely. we are going to work with responsible gun owners who understand that we've got to keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn't have them in the first place. <cheers> and while we create more safe communities, we want to invest in those communities. i want to continue the good work that our past two  presidents have done, one named , one named . <cheers> and i want to be a rely strong partner. i'll compete a little with them, but i want to be a re strong partner with detroit and other cities that are on the way back up, to make sure you get the investment and the support, the housing and the jobs that you need. but we so have to make sure our economy is fairer. that's why i believe we should raise the nation minimum wage because people who work full-e should not be left in poverty. <cheers> and isn't it finly e to guarantee equ pay for women? <cheers> this is not a woman's issue. if you have a wife, a mother, a daughter or a sister who works, it's your issue, it's a family issue. and every e i tk about wanting to have affordable childcare, paid family leave, equ pay for women, the other side accuses me of playing the woman's card. i'll tell you what. if standing up for equ pay is playing the woman's card, then de me in. <cheers> and one of the other, one of the other big chlenges we're going to take on, i am so exci about this. you know, i'm rely proud of the campaign that   and i ran because it was a campaign about issues. and what we decided after it was over is how we can work together to make sure that everybody who wants to go to college can afford not just to start but actuly to graduate. <cheers> so we came up with a plan that if you go to a public college or university, you will go tuition free if your family makes less than $125,000 a year. <cheers> and it will be debt-free for everybody above that so you don't go into debt. <cheers> for people who ready have student debt, we're going to help you pay it down and pay it off, to get out from under it. <cheers> and i want especily to support historicly black colleges and universities that have done so much to bring forth a leadership cadre in our country. this is just some of what we are offering in this campaign because we rely believe you need to look at what will happen after the election. now i had a friend say to me the other day, you know, people are just frustra and angry. i get that. i understand that. we had the worst economic collapse since the great depression in '08 and '09. millions of people lost their jobs. millions lost their homes. family weth was wiped out. that is a trauma, and people are still suffering and still climbing back from that. i get it. but i learned a long e ago from my late mother, anger is not a plan, l right? be angry, vent about it, and then roll up your sleeves and get to work. <cheers> that's what i will do. that's why we put this l down. it's on our website, .com. it's in a book that   and i put out cled "stronger together," because not only do i want you to know what i will try to do as your president, i want you to hold me accountable. i want you... <cheers> i want you, when i come back to detroit, which i will do, when i travel around michigan, which i will do, i want you to say, well, how's it going getting those new jobs star? how much progress are we ma on ma sure college is affordable? i believe in ma lists. maybe it's a woman's thing. <cheers> my husband said to me one e, you have lists of your lists. well, i do, because i want to know what we're going to get done and how we can make progress together. and ulately this election rely is about the kind of country we want for our kids, and in my case now my gkids. are we rely a nation that believes in freedom and justice for l? are we rely a nation that recognizes our best years can still be ahead of us if we make up our minds to have that be our go? <cheers> i believe we can do this together. my opponent at his convention said "i one can fix it." well, no. nobody one does anything. when our founders met in philadelphia, it wasn't one person creating our country. it was many people wor together and fighting a revolution to get that democracy. and then to fight for civil rights and voting rights and workers rights and women's rights and lgbt rights. <cheers> none of them, none of them were won by one person one. the aman labor movement didn't happen to get somebody one day say, i one make it happen. it took millions of people in every one of these movements, marching and spea out and sitting in.   wasn't put into the white house by one person one. it took everybody wor and organizing and, yes, voting. that is how progress happens in ama. <cheers> so rely, it l comes down to you, my friends. you have to vote. our progress is on the line. everything that has happened up until this point is on the line. i'm ready to defend and build on the progress that we've made. i'm proud i was a member of president 's cabinet. i'm proud that he and i are friends. <cheers> but he knows and i know that aman leadership, aman presidents, it's like running a relay. you do your very best and then you pass off the baton and you just  that the person you had it off to doesn't drop to the ground. or doesn't turn around and run back the way we came from, which is what my opponent is promising to do. <cheers> now i've told the president that when he hands off the baton, he's going to have to d over. he's a lot tler than i am. but i'm exci about what we can do. i know this is been a tough campaign. i've got people coming up to me saying they've got migraines they never had before. they have stomachaches that they don't know what they're going to do with. i get it. it has been in many ways a rely tough campaign. but i'll tell you what. michigan, you can make the difference. <cheers> l i'm as you is, tk to your friends, tk to your family, tk to your coworkers, tk to everybody. if you have e to volunteer, go to .com to volunteer, or text join47246 because when your children -- and there are some beautiful children in this crowd here today. <cheers> when your children or gchildren ask what you did in 2016, when everything was on the line, i want you to be able to say, i vo for a better, stronger, fairer ama. <cheers> an ama where we build bridges, not wls. <cheers> and where we prove once and for l that love s hate. let's get to work. thank you, detroit. thank you, michigan. god bless you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in tampa, florida (sd/24)">
<date:"2016-10-26">
<:> thank you so much.
<audience: happy birthday! happy birthday! happy birthday! (applause)>
<:> thank you. wow, thank you l. what a great way to celebrate my birthday being here in tampa. <applause> i am so, so grateful to jose for that wonderful introduction. he's an incredibly ten chef, but more than that, i have to say he's a nitarian. he just came back from haiti once again where he goes periodicly to help feed people. he's been doing it ever since the terrible earthquake, going to help people in remote villages. and he does that l over the world when it comes to ma sure that there are clean cook stoves so that people can cook, primarily women and children, without fear of getting sick from inhing l the smoke. i enlis jose's help when i was secretary of state on the clean cook stoves initiative. and as you heard, he's so a proud immigrant. and... <applause> he is standing up to  's anti-immigrant rhetoric and he's doing it in a very courageous way because he sacrificed his business. he'd been asked by the  organization to put a restaurant into the new hotel that  was t about on tv today in washington. and after jose heard the kinds of things that   was saying about immigrants, he said, "no, i refuse to open a restaurant in that hotel." <applause> that is rely gutsy, and today was as perfect e to have jose be with us because, as i said,   is ta e off the campaign trail to officily open the hotel. and yesterday here in florida, he took e out to invite the press to listen to his employees tk about what a great boss he is while he was watching and listening to them. and today, in opening that hotel, i think it's important to note that he once again relied on undocumen workers, the e people he has been insulting and demonizing throughout this campaign. so, like with so much else that   says, he says one thing and then he does something different. many of the products in the hotel were made overseas rather than here in the uni states and he even sued the district of columbia to pay lower taxes. that is the way that he does business. now... <booing> we've actuly learned in this campaign that   is the poster boy for everything wrong with our economy. <applause> he refuses to pay workers and contractors from atlantic city to miami to las vegas. he stiffs sml businesses. i take that one personly because my dad was a sml business man. and i've met so many people who did projects for  , you know, provided pianos for one of his casinos, instled drapes for one of his hotels, laid the marble, put in the glass, washed the dishes, pain, and then weren't paid.
<:> i just think that is fundamently wrong and that is not the kind of experience we need in the ov office. so i'm grateful to jose and i want to thank everyone else. my great friend, your uni states senator,  nelson. <applause> congresswoman kathy castor. <applause> mayor bob buckhorn who's here with his two daughters. <applause> governor charlie crist, soon to be congressman charlie crist. <applause> i have to say we've got two great candidates here:  singer, candidate for the house of representatives; and rena frazier, another candidate. and we have the great tent of angela bassett with us today. <applause> so, my friends, here's the advice that i got. it is a beautiful day in tampa, but it's warm. and some of you have been here a while, right? and i'm watching the flags, so long as they're waving, i know there's a breeze. if they stop waving, i'm rely going to cut this short. but let me start by than you. than you for being here and... <applause>
<audience: , , .>
<:> thank you. thank you. well, i'll tell you, if i ever need a, you know, pickup, i'm coming back to tampa, mayor. <applause> and you know, with 13 days left in this election, we cannot stop for a minute. no complacency here. nobody -- nobody flagging. we've got to get everybody out to vote. and i  in addition to the people that i mentioned, someone who's not here i  you will support that is congressman pat murphy to send him to the uni states senate. i think you'll be pleased because he's an independent voice, he's a problem-solver. he believes in comprehensive immigration reform. he has stood with planned parenthood against the attacks that it has suffered. he's even brought s and s together to try to protect our environment and fund everglades restoration. he will stand up to the gun lobby and advocate for common sense gun safety measures. he'll defend soci security and medicare, not cutting or privatizing those two essenti programs. so please, do your best to make sure we send pat murphy to the senate. now, i got to ask you, did anybody see the last debate? <applause> you know, i have now stood next to   for four-and-a- hf hours, proving conclusively that i have the stamina to do the job. <applause> and every e he says one of those outrageous things that he does have a -- yes, wrong -- he does have a way of saying, i just keep remembering  's words, "when he goes low, we go high." <applause> but i've got to say, he said something in the last debate we've never heard from anybody running for president. he basicly said that he's not sure -- he refused to say that he would respect the results of the election. now, this is a guy that said the emmys were rigged, so you can't rely take what he says, you know, very seriously. but this is a problem because the first thing a president does at noon on january 20th is to take an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the constitution. and if you are casting doubts, you want to keep people in suspense as to whether you will respect the outcome of an election, that is contrary to who we are as amans. we have our elections. we've had them from  washington forward, and we're going to keep having them and show what a democracy looks like to the rest of the world. <applause> i believe strongly that the aman people are going to reject this dark, divisive vision of ama. and it's happening, my friends. we have reached a milestone. more than 200 million amans are registered to vote. that's the biggest number ever. and that number includes 15 million young people. <applause> and you know what else? more than 10 million people have ready vo, including 2 million right here in florida. <applause> i'm hearing some great stories from people. let me just tell you one. it's about stephen <ph> from saint augustine. he's been fighting a rare form of leukemia and heart disease. he's been in and out of the hospit a dozen es in the last two years. but he knows how important his vote is. so i heard yesterday, he ditched his oxygen tank, which i would not have recommended... <laughter> ... clung to his , stood in line so he could cast his vote for a better ama. and... <applause> if stephen <ph> can do that, nobody has any excuses. and i think this extends not just to s, but to s and independents, and i am proud to have support from s and independents here across florida and across ama... <applause> ... who agree with me that we should reject hate and division. we have seen   insult nearly every person in ama. and i just -- i just find that so intolerable because look at this diverse crowd, look at tampa, it's a cosmopolitan city. <applause> florida -- florida is paving the way for what our country will look like and we need to be lifting each other up, listening to each other, respecting each other, not sewing seeds of hatred and bigotry. and i think one of my biggest jobs after this election will be bringing our country together and i'm gonna need your help. <applause> we're going to get the economy wor for everybody, not just people at the top, with new jobs and infrastructure that -- that rail, that system, bob <ph>, that you want, we're going to get it because it would help you so much. <applause> think of the people we'd put to work. technology, innovation, research, advanced manufacturing, and yes, sml business. i want to be the best sml business president you can have to help people start and grow their businesses. <applause> but we're so going to make ama the clean energy super power of the 21st century. <applause> i know we can create millions of jobs and we can protect florida, especily coast florida, and we could protect our planet at the e e. you know, you're ready seeing the results of climate change here in florida. you know, i was just in miami and they actuly have flooding on sunny days with no rain. people are cling 311 because they think a water main broke, but it's the oceans rising. so i know there is no state that could efit more from a clean energy agenda than florida, and that's exactly what we're gonna do. <applause> we're so gonna make public colleges and universities tuition free. <applause> if your family makes less than $125,000, which is most families in ama, you're not gonna have to pay a penny to go to a public college or university. <applause> if your family makes more than that, you're not gonna have to go into debt. pay what you can afford and then we're going to make sure you can go without getting a big debt because that drags people down. <applause> and for people who ready have debt, we are going to help you refinance it and pay it off. <applause> and i wanna say something to l of the teachers and educators; i want to work with you and be a good partner with you. and i think there should be more than one way, more than just a four-year college degree to get a good job with a good middle class-life for you and your family. <applause> so let's invest in more technic education in high school and our community colleges. let's have more apprenticeship programs, labor and business together. <applause> but while we grow the economy, let's make it fairer. we need to raise the nation minimum wage so that people who work full-e aren't left in poverty. <applause> you know, i gotta tell you, i was raised to believe in hard work. my gfather was a factory worker, my dad had a sml business. and we rely believed you gotta work for what you get in life, right? but if you're wor, you shouldn't be at the point where you cannot even afford food or clothes or rent at the end of the year. <applause> and isn't it finly e to guarantee equ pay for women's work? <applause> you know, this is not just a women's issue, this is a family issue. if you've got a mother, a wife, a sister or a daughter wor, it's your issue. <applause> and unlike my opponent, we're going to ask the wethy, the millionaires and ionaires, to pay their fair share because we're going to close the loopholes and make sure no multi-millionaire ever pays a lower tax rate than a nurse, or a teacher, or a police officer, or a fire fighter. <applause> and i will not raise taxes on anyone ma less than $250,000 a year. <applause> so when you go to the polls, vote to grow the economy, more jobs with <ph> rising income, vote to make the economy fairer. and compare that with what my opponent has proposed. he rely believes if you give trillions -- that's trillions with a t -- trillions in tax cuts to the wethy, millionaires, ionaires, big corporations, everything will tle down. now, we know that doesn't work, we've seen it. and it's pretty rich coming from a guy who claims to be so rich, who hasn't paid a dime in feder incomes in 20 years. <applause> he says not paying taxes makes him smart. well, i don't know -- i don't know how smart you have to be to lose a ion dollars in one year. <laughter> and besides, what kind of genius loses money running a casino, for heaven's sake? <applause> 
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> actuly, it sounds like a few people have been at <ph> casinos here. <laughter> but you know, this means he's contribu zero. ok? he actuly has a gl to cl our military a disaster. not only is he wrong, but what right does he have to say that? he hasn't contribu a penny to our military. not a penny to our veterans. not a penny to hethcare or education. not a penny to highways or infrastructure. this is -- this is a fse -- fse charge that he makes about l the problems in our country. and i'll tell you something, we did a little research. he's been denigrating ama for decades. this didn't start with his birther lie against president , it didn't even start running against me. back in 1987, he took out a $100,000 ad in the new york es, criticizing president regan. he said our leaders were the laughing stock of the world. so, this is a guy who criticizes everybody but himself. and at some point, you've got to say "wait a minute, we're better than that. we are stronger than that. we want to move forward, forward into the future with confidence and opism." and that's what we're offering in this campaign. i've got to tell you, it is not just what we're against that should motivate you to go to the polls, it's what we are for. <applause> and i believe strongly that what we're for will make it possible for l of us, and especily our kids and our gkids, to have the best future. ama's best days can still be ahead of us, but we can't make any of this happen if we don't have you voting. now,   says he can still win, and he's right. that's why it's so important everyone gets out and votes. and here in florida -- you know, in a lot of places you can only vote on election day, but here in florida, voting couldn't be easier. early voting began on monday in south florida, it goes through sunday, november 6 around the state. you can go to any early voting site between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. in fact, the county center on east kennedy boulevard is just a 10 minute wk from here. <applause> you can go vote right after this event. and we'll have staff ready to help you get there. and you can go to iwillvote.com to confirm your polling place and make a plan to vote. but i so  you will volunteer these last two weeks. <applause> we're reaching out to everybody. so go to .com and sign up to volunteer. take out your phone and text j-o-i-n -- and that is 47246. we can use you. we're ma millions of phone cls in florida. we're knoc on -- maybe by the e we finish -- millions of doors. we don't want anybody to be left out or left behind because on january 20th, ama will have a new president. <applause> now, i've got to say say...
<audience: , , .>
<:> so, i've got to say to you that, you know, change is inevitable in life. right? and so the re question is what kind of change are we going to have. and i want you to tk to anybody you know who's either thin of not voting or maybe thin of voting for my opponent. <booing> no, i'm serious. i'm serious. you know, after this election, if i'm fortunate enough to be elec, we are going to reach out to everybody. right? and ask the people you're t to what kind of change they rely want, because i don't think most amans want the kind of divisive and dark change   is offering: mass deportations that will rip families apart; a repe of gun-free school zones on day one; going back to the day when insurance companies could discriminate against us if we have a preexisting condition; letting wl street write its own rules; denying the science of climate change; rolling back marriage equity; de-funding planned parenthood... <booing> ... the hugest tax breaks ever for the wethy, and a broad abandoning our liances and lowing more countries to get nuclear weapons. now that may be change, but boy, that's not the change we need. and my vision is different. it's more ful, opistic, and unifying. i want us to be a country where every student can afford to go to college if that's what you choose. i want us to be a country where millions of people are wor in good, high-paying jobs, and in new industries like clean energy and advanced manufacturing. i want us to be a country where hard-wor immigrants who pay taxes -- and by the way, one-hf of undocumen workers pay feder income taxes, which means they are paying more feder income taxes than   pays. <applause> and a country where we not only have equ pay for our work, but affordable childcare; where we're respec in the world, wor with our lies to defeat terrorism and stop the spread of nuclear weapons. so, yes, change is coming. the choice is yours about what kind of change we'll have. and i  you will choose to be part of this campaign because it's not just about winning on november 8th, as important as that is. it is about getting to work, because i do believe we are stronger together.   and i wrote a book laying out our agenda because i think you deserve to know what i will try to do as your president. so if you will help, we will come together to give every aman the chance to chart your own future and contribute to our great country. let's prove once and for l that love s hate. thank you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks with vice president   in scranton, pennsylvania (sd)">
<date:"2016-08-15">
<:> hello. <applause> wow. hello, everyone.
<audience: ! !>
<:> thank you. thank you l so much. it is so great to be back in scranton, pennsylvania. <applause> i can't tell you how important this is. we both have a lot of memories of scranton and lake winola. that's right. <applause> and it is such a nostgic trip for me because my brothers are here. we came to lake winola every summer of my life and loved every minute of it. <applause> and there are a lot of people in this crowd who our family has known or 's family has known over the years and we are grateful to each and every one of you. it's so wonderful to be here in scranton with senator bob casey. <applause> and your congressman, matt cartwright. <applause> and your amazing lackawanna county recorder of deeds, evie rafki mcnulty. <applause> and we sure miss that husband of yours. we're thin about you and sending you our best wishes. we're so here with auditor gener eugene depasque, too. <applause> and of course, as i said, i'm here with the one, the only vice president  . <applause> you know,  grew up over on north washington avenue. <applause> no matter how far he travels, he never forgets where he's from. i have seen him in a lot of settings; in the spotlight as vice president and senator, in quiet moments with constituents and in the situation room, helping to make decisions that affect our lives and security. and wherever he goes, he's ways the e guy; a fighter for everyone, a champion for towns like scranton and above l, a fighter for families. <applause>
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> and you know, i think he'd be the first to say that he cares about your families because of his family.  senior and catherine taught  that l people deserve to be trea with dignity. when you see someone fl, you help them back up because we are l in this together. that is the  way. <applause> we have seen how he fights for wor families because he passionately believes in the basic bargain that makes ama great, that our economy should work for everyone not just those at the top. <applause> he stands up against injustice. he has led the fight to end violence against women and girls. <applause> and he stands up for people's lives and heth, including the project he's now leader on behf of president : the cancer moonshot to fund breakthroughs and save lives. <applause> as many of you know, his wonderful son beau, a great father, a great public servant, a great n being; passed away last year so this is person to  . he knows it's person to a lot of families, that's why he's fighting so hard to make a difference. and if i'm elec this fl, i'm going to ask  to continue the important work he's begun to help us fight and defeat cancer. <applause> so as someone who has worked with  for years, first in the senate then as a member of the - cabinet, i can attest to that passion for standing up for people, trying to make lives better. it's what pushes him to work as hard as he can every second of every day for l of us. and  and his wonderful wife  have raised their children and gchildren with those e vues. so  i  you know how much not just scranton but ama loves you and your family. so it means a great de to have him by my side. you know when  and i were deciding where to have our first campaign rly, there rely was only one answer. scranton isn't just 's hometown; it's my dad's hometown too. while the 's were on north washington avenue, my family, the rodham's were a few blocks away on diamond avenue. i was tened at the methodist church on court street. my gfather went to work at the scranton lace mill starting as a teenager. it wasn't easy work. but you know what i learned? that business trea its workers right. believe it or not the scranton lace company l those years ago actuly offered a profit sharing plan and heth efits at the beginning of the 20th century. they understood something that a lot of folks have forgotten. they understood that their workers were responsible for much of the businesses success, so it was only fair that they shared in that success and that their families efi too. and because of that job my gfather could give my father a better life. my father was able to go to college, went to penn state where he played footbl. then after he got out of penn state it was 1935, right in the depths of the depression and he was loo for a job. he heard a friend of his knew somebody who heard that somebody was hiring in chicago so he literly hopped a freight train from scranton to chicago -- i don't recommend that anymore -- where he got a job as a sesman. he went into the navy during world war ii and when he got out he star a sml business in chicago where i grew up. and just like his father before him, my dad was determined to give us even greater opportunities than he had. and to me that is the aman dream. no matter where life takes me, i ways remember i am the gdaughter of a factory worker and the daughter of a sml business owner and i am so proud of it. and you know the story of the rodhams and the s isn't unique. what's unique is the country where those stories were written. no matter what   says ama is great and the aman dream is big enough for everyone to share in its promise. but that doesn't mean we can take it for gran and just wait until it happens to us. we have a lot of work to do. here in scranton you know that. president  and vice president  pulled us back from the worst financi crisis since the great depression and put our economy back on a stronger footing. i personly don't think they get enough credit for that. under their leadership we've crea 15 million new private sector jobs, 20 million people now have heth care and the auto industry just had its best year ever. so i think the job of the next president is to build on that but to take on the deeper chlenges that emerged long before the crisis and have persis through our recovery. inequity is too high. wages are too low. it is still too hard for too many to get ahead.
<:> so my top priority is create an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top which is why i've set five ambitious gos to get us there. first, we are going to make the biggest investment in new, good-paying jobs since world war ii. <applause> second, we're going to make college debt-free for l and help millions of people struggling with existing student debt. <applause> third, we're going to crack down on companies that shift jobs and profits overseas. <applause> and we're going to reward companies that share profits with their employees like the scranton lace company did most a century ago. <applause> fourth, fourth...
<audience: ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !>
<:> thank you. <applause> fourth, we're going to make sure that wl street corporation and the super rich finly pay their fair share of taxes. <applause> and fifth, we're going to respond to the way aman families actuly live and work today, by ma child-care affordable because in today's economy, there is often no parent or gparent staying home with the kids. and we're going to fight for paid family leave because somees you need to take care of your child or your spouse or sick parent, and you should not lose your job for ta care of the loved ones. <applause> now, you know, whenever i mentioned these issues, you know,   ways said that i'm playing the woman's card. well, you know what i say, if that's playing the woman's card then de me in! <applause> i rely believe that together this plan will go a long way toward building a stronger, fairer economy where everyone can contribute to its growth. everyone can share in its rewards. now, by contrast, what's 's plan? well, he laid it out last week. and i'll admit, even before he did i didn't think it was going to be good for wor amans, but it turned out to be worse than i ever imagined. <laughter> i know some of you may have friends up here in north eastern pennsylvania who are thin about voting for , you know. <audience boos> i know, i know. friends should not let friends vote for . <laughter> <applause> but, just in care you can have a conversation, explain that   would give trillions -- that's trillions with a "t" -- in tax cuts to big corporations, millionaires and wl street money managers. that would explode the nation debt. <audience boos> and it would lead to massive cuts in things like education and hethcare. he's even cled for a new tax loophole; let's cl it the  loophole because it would low  to pay less than hf the current tax rate on income for many of his companies, a pretty sweet de. he would end up paying a rate lower than millions of middle-class families. now, that is assuming he pays any taxes at l because we rely don't know because we haven't seen his tax return. <applause> but we do know just by loo at the data, we know that the 400 richest taxpayers in ama would get an average tax cut of more than $15 million a year from the  loophole. and then of course there's the estate tax that  wants to eliminate l together. now, if you believe that he's as wethy as he claims that would save the  family $4 ion. but it would do nothing for 99.8 percent of l the other amans in our country. so yes, $4 ion tax cut for , 99.8 percent of amans get nothing. think of what we could do with those $4 ion. we could pay for more than 47,000 veterans to get a four-year college degree. <applause> we could provide a year -- years worth of hethcare to nearly 3 million kids. or we could fund a years worth of feder assistance to state and law -- loc law enforcement. so there are a lot of better ways to spend the money.
<:> and there's one more part of 's plan that i want to mention, he's now saying he wants to help people pay for child care by excluding those payments from taxation. well again, guess who that will help the most, it will help rich people, who will get 30 to 40 cents on the dollar to pay for their nannies. hardwor families who can't afford childcare in the first place well get little to no re help. that's why his child-care plan has been panned by experts across the politic spectrum left, right, and center. because remember right now, child-care costs as much as in state college tuition in most of the country. so we need re solutions that will work for wor people not just the well off and to prove that he rely cares about this issue,  made a point about t about how his businesses offer on- site child care to workers. well, that kind of perked <ph> me up. <laughter> because if he rely did that it would be a big de, i wish more companies would provide on-site child-care. that would be a huge efit for employees, but like so much of what he says is not true. it turns out some of his resorts, hotels, and clubs offer child care- services but for guests not employees. just saying. if you stay at a  hotel you could enroll your kid in something cled  kids. <laughter> they will get speci childrens room service, childrens spa service even a nanny for a fee but if you work for his business, if you clean the rooms, water the lawns, carry peoples bags, you get nothing. i'm not even sure  knows that providing a  kids program for paying customers is not the e thing as providing re child care for your workers. just like his tax breaks for ionaires aren't the e as a re plan to help ama's wor families. you know, vice president  has a saying i love, "don't tell me what you vue, show me your budget and i'll tell you what you vue". <applause> no, it's pretty clear   wants to give trillions of tax breaks to people like himself not invest in our veterans, our kids, our police officers, our teachers and anyone who rely provides services and we have re serious chlenges in ama. we need serious leadership, this is not a reity t.v. show, it's as re as it gets. look at what's happening in milwaukee right now, we've got urgent work to do to rebuild trust between police and communities ad get back to the fundament principle -- everyone should have respect for the law and be respec by the law. <applause> so on l these important chlenges, you have to ask yourself, is  up to the job? he's giving a speech -- he's giving a speech about isis today, now i've laid out my strategy for defeating isis over many months. we will strike their sanctuaries from the air and support loc forces ta them out on the ground. under president  and vice president  we are ma progress, we will surge our intelligence so we detect and prevent attacks before they happen. we will disrupt their efforts online to reach and radicize young people in our country. it won't be easy or quick but make no mistake, we will prevail. there is no doubt in my mind. <applause>
<crowd: usa! usa! usa!>
<:> and once again, in comparison, 's been l over the place on isis. he tked about letting syria become a free-zone for isis, a major country in the middle east that could launch attacks against us and others. he's tked about sending ground troops, aman ground troops -- well, that is off the table as far as i am concerned.
<:> so we'll wait and see what he says today. but somees he says he won't tell anyone what he'll do because he wants to keep his plan quote "secret." and then it turns out the secret is he has no plan. <laughter> and that was very clear when he said, "i know more about isis than the geners." no , you don't. and on top of that he says more countries should have nuclear weapons, including in the middle east. he tks about w away from our european lies. he has the temerity to say that the uni states military is a disaster. well, i wish he'd spent as much e as  and i have meeting the brave young men and women who serve in the military. meeting their families. meeting with gold star families. those are not the words of someone who respects our military and the sacrifice that our young men and women make every single day. <applause> i said in philadelphia that a man you can bait with a tweet is not a man you can trust with nuclear weapons. it's so not a man you can trust to run our economy, help he our cities, or be a role model for our children. there is no doubt   is temperamently unfit and totly unquified to be president of the uni states and commander-in-chief. <applause> so my friends, ama deserves a president who can get the job done, bring our country together not tear it apart, deliver re results for hardwor amans. and we can't win this election without you. that's why i'm as you to join right now. take out your phone and text "join-247246." or go to .com. we are hiring organizers right here in pennsylvania and across the country. we are going to run a vigorous campaign across pennsylvania. we're going to keep building the future that you and your families deserve, and i am so sure we can do this, especily with this man fighting ongside us just like he ways has. so scranton, please let's give it up for the vice-president of the uni states,  . <applause>
<: hello folks. it's good to be home. folks, let me tell you what scranton does deserve. well, thank you. scranton deserves what it's ways deserved because it is made up of so many people with grit and courage - i mean this sincerely, from the bottom of my heart - with grit, courage, determination -- who never, ever give up. they deserve someone who not only understands them, they deserve someone who's with them. and they deserve someone who's made of the e stuff. that's  . that's who she is. (applause) it's good to be home. with so many friends as i look around. as a matter of fact one of the people in the reception line said, "my aunt owns your house." (laughter) tell her i'm coming. i'm coming home. i was there when i was running and up in the bedroom -- written on the wl still is, "  slept here." and then it said, "lived here." i'm glad they added the "lived here" part. you know i'm often asked why we moved from greenridge to claymont, delaware and then wilmington.>
<: claymont's a suburb of wilmington, delaware. and it's because of bob casey. no, look - the caseys lived five blocks from us, just around the corner from st. clair's.(ph) and i am midway between  and . and i knew only one of us was going to make it out of greenwich, and i knew it was not going to be me. so i had to move. there was too much casey tent in the neighborhood.  , you are a great friend and great uni state senator. thank you. (applause) as they say in southern delaware, they tk at you like this matt cartwright (ph), that boy married up. he married right up. i tell you, he was ways see influence - but you got it, man. you are doing a wonderful job as well. thank you. (applause) i have been home since this e, but i stood here eight years ago kic off our campaign.  and   at my side. they ways had my back. i want to make it clear that as scranton has ways had my back , we and fact, l of us, will have your back, . (applause) scranton has been so-- some of the folks in our administration were there on election night when the results were coming in. i give you my word as a  i asked one and only one question , what did we do in the northeast? we won by a larger margin than we had before. the rest did not matter. i took full credit for it. nothing to do with it. you know, if you listen to , you'd think i was a kid who just climbed out of a co mine with a lunchbox from scranton. i'm the kid from scranton. well, i am from scranton and i was a kid at one e. but so often, quite frankly, my people in delaware resen -- i've represen them for 36 years a u.s. senator, and 44 years in high public office, and i swear to god -- there's a parade that star on the fourth of july just as i was getting star in '72 and it was cled the hockessin parade. it's right on the pennsylvania border. and from the e my boys were then three and four years old, four and five years old -- actuly three and four years old -- they were in the parade with me. and so when my beau -- and he was the most popular politician in delaware -- i would tag ong with him. no, for re, in the parade. so one of the things i am trying to do, , after the people of delaware have been so generous to me l these years, and to beau as attorney gener, i am trying to go back and do as many things in the last year at home in delaware to show my affection and my appreciation. and so i was in the fourth of july parade in hockessin recently, surprising the press and everyone because i was there. and there were thousands of people there. many of the e people had wai five hours in line to pay respects at my son's viewing, and i was there to thank them for the overwhelming support they gave me for l those years. and as i continued ong the parade route, two guys came running up to me, big guys, both guys i played bl with, bigger than me. secret service was about to have a heart attack. and they said, , what in the hell is l this stuff about scranton? you're from claymont, god darn it. you're from claymont. you're from delaware still, aren't you, ? so you l have to write a note and tell them i love scranton, it's my home, but you know what, home is where your character is stamped. where it's stamped into your soul. where your vues are set. where your view of the world and your place in that world began. for me, that was 2446 north washington avenue around my gfather finnegan's table as where i learned that money doesn't determine your net worth. that no one, i mean it sincerely -- this is not hyperbole. this is deadly earnest -- i learned that no one is more worthy than you and everyone is your equ.>
<: i learned from my mother, catherine eugenia "jean" finnegan  that, and she said this so many es she'd look you in the eye and say, y look at me. remember, you're defined by your courage and you're redeemed by your loyty. (applause) she'd go on to say, because everybody's had tough es, she says as long as you're ive, you have an obligation to strive. you're not dead until you've seen the face of god. what i learned here from my father is that i can be anything i wan to be. that anything can be accomplished. this is not a joke, this is re. that the measure of your character is not whether you'll get knocked and fl because you will. the measure is how quickly you get up. (applause) i learned about resilience from my father, who like many of you and many of your parents made what i cl the longest wk. the longest wk any man and woman can make is up a short flight of stairs to their child's bedroom to say honey, i'm sorry, we can't live here anymore. we lost the house. or daddy or mommy doesn't have a job. i remember my dad ma that wk, moving us to my gfathers' home. i remember - but what i remember most was him saying, but i promise you, everything, everything is -- you can't go back to st. 's. you can't play in grooves (ph) and leave anymore. but i promise you, everything is going to be okay and he meant it, he knew it. because it used to be a basic bargain back then. it used to be a bargain if you worked like hell for the outfit you worked with. when they did well, you got to participate. how's the bargain? what  is l about is ma sure that everyone of you, everyone of you can look your child and their gchild in the eye and say honey, i mean this sincerely, and everything is going to be okay. think how many people you know who don't feel like they can say that right now. my father when he said it, on the bls of his heels, he meant it because he thought (inaudible) clear shot if you worked hard. everything i learned from my father and gfathers table was reinforced by my neighbors and my friends, l around this town. pride, independence, resiliency. when i moved away from scranton, i was going into the fourth grade but i never left. i spent summers, holidays, college weekends, weddings, funers, first communions, bar mitzvahs. by the way - for me, it was nay aug park, it wasn't the lake. (applause) i ways remember that i've been taught what you l believe up here. everyone is entitled to be trea with dignity and respect, no matter who they are. that ama - (applause) that ama and  gets this better than anybody i know. that ama can be defined in one single word, possibilities. that's the thing about ama... (applause) that's the thing about scranton, that's the thing about who we are. anything is possible. that's the ama i know. ladies and gentlemen, that's the ama   knows. (applause) you know, the people i trust most? in public life, i've been at this a long e -- trust the people where the feeling starts in their gut, moves to their heart, and then is articula by a great mind.  understands the s and aspirations of the people in claymont, in scranton, and every scranton and claymont in the uni states of ama. i've known her for over 30 years. (applause) i knew her before she was first lady, when we served together in the senate. during her years as secretary of state once a week, we'd have breakfast at my home. i became the -whisperer.>
<: she'd look at me and say, what did he mean by that? (applause) he loves her. everybody knows this has never been an issue with . unlike it's a gigantic issue for her opponent. but l kidding aside, everybody, by the way my family's right there, the family. good morning, i didn't even see you! secret service, you see that beautiful young girl there? make sure she gets back when i leave the stage ok? because we're not leaving until i get a hug. anyway sorry guys. it's kind of a family thing. but look, think about it. everybody has known from day one how smart, how bright  is. everybody knows how tough she is. but what i don't think everybody knows enough about it may be the different between the irish catholic and the methodist piece here, we wear everything on our sleeve. i don't think they fully understand how passionate she is about what she does. i've known i want you to listen just for a minute. i don't even want you to clap. i want you; because i want to make sure you understand what i know about her. you know she understands that, that college loan to get a bright young girl or boy to school is about a lot more than whether or not they're going to get a chance. it's about the pride and the dignity of the parent who looks at that child. i mean it sincerely, please don't, just listen to this. i remember i went down to my dad's place of work to pick up a car. and he was wandering back and forth in the par lot. the secretary said, he's out there. i wked out and he said, y i'm so sorry, i'm so damned sorry. this was before cell phones, i thought maybe something happened. he said i went to the bank today honey; they won't lend me the money to get you to school. i'm so ashamed.  understands that the most damaging thing to a parent is to look at a ten child or a sick child or a child in need and not be able to do anything. she's understood that for years. she's understood for years that millions of people here in scranton and claymont and l across ama, went to bed staring at a ceiling thin, my god what happens if she develops breast cancer? or he gets lung cancer? what happens? we lose everything. what do we do then? a lot of you remember those days. my family remembers those days. she gets it. she understands what it will mean and i rely mean this. it's more than about her. she understands it means for these beautiful young girls, and i'm being serious now, these three beautiful little girls i'm loo at now, what it will mean to them when it's president  rodham . it will change their lives. it will change their lives. it will prove that my daughter and my gdaughters can do anything my sons and gsons can do. that's what it will mean. it's consequenti. so let me say this as clearly as i can. if you live in a neighborhood like i grew up in, or my wife  grew up in willow grove or down in claymont, if you worry about your job, getting decent pay. if you worry about your children's education, if you're ta care of an elderly parent after losing the other one, then there's only one person in this election who will possibly help you, and that is  . folks she's ways been there. it's not a joke. you know you use phrases like that. but she has ways been there. that's her life story. and let's state the obvious. that is not  's life story.>
<: senator  kaufman, who you know very well, , served with you, used to be my administrative assistant for years and years, graduate of the wharton school, an engineer my degree (ph) at duke. he (inaudible) at the wharton school. the wharton school by the way, isn't -- doesn't have a  sign up. anyway... (laughter) that said, the difference between a success and a genuine success -- excuse me -- a minimum success and a re success is someone who had nothing and makes $1 million is a re success. someone who inherits a million and makes $20 million -- no they're not a bum, but they're a mere (ph) successes. (laughter) some are bums, but not l. (laughter) look, let me tell you the part that bothers me. and you know, as  will point out and knows that no one ever doubts i mean what i say. (laughter) the problem is i somees (ph) say l that i mean. (laughter) but let me tell you what rely bothers me most, and maybe this only works where i grew up. i don't know. but you know, what bothers me most about   is his cynicism is unbounded. i -- i -- no, i rely mean this. think of (ph) this for a minute (inaudible) l raised in this area, you're different ethnicities, different religions, different backgrounds. but there's one thing i've noticed l the years i've sent and i've ways, ways come home. and that is that the way you were raised, if you ever showed a lack of empathy for someone in trouble, if you ever summed up a thought that the phrase he's most proud of, you're fired -- think -- think about the phrase, you're fired. think -- no, l kidding aside. i rely mean this. maybe it's just me. but think about what your mother or father or gmother or gfather would have said to you. think about everything you learned as a child. i rely mean this. no matter where you were raised. how can there be pleasure in division and you're fired? and he's trying to tell us he cares about the middle class. give me a break. and to repeat myself, is such a bunch of markey. it makes no sense. none, none, none, none. (applause) this guy doesn't care about the middle class. and i don't even blame him in a sense because he doesn't understand it. he doesn't have a clue. no, no. he rely -- he rely doesn't. he doesn't have a clue. and by the way, there's something else he has no clue about that has nothing to do with being a  or a . i have worked -- i have worked with eight presidents of the uni states. i have served with hundreds of senators. only 13 senators in history, i'm embarrassed to say, have served as long as i have. (laughter) dozens of secretaries of state and secretaries of defense of both parties. and i can say without hesitation, my word as a , no major party nominee in the history of the uni states of ama, has -- now, don't cheer or -- quiet (ph). just listen. (laughter) has known less or been less prepared to de with our nation security than  . and what absolutely amazes me -- what absolutely amazes me, that he doesn't seem to want to learn it. no, i rely mean it. he doesn't seem to want to learn it. he doesn't seem to think it matters. this man is totly, thoroughly unquified to be president of the uni states of ama. (applause) he not only lacks the temperament -- people say he lacks the temperament. i -- i'd feel better if that's l he lacked. (laughter) on every issue that matters most to our security,   has no clue what it takes to lead this great country. now look, you know, if i had said this eight, 10 months ago, they'd say, well, you know, i'm being partisan. well, i am partisan. i make no apologies for that. but i'm not mean about it, and as  will tell you, i don't know any  that is more positive relationships with s than i do in the uni states senate.>
<: but having said that, look at the people who've come out. scores and scores of the most prominent,  thinkers in the nation security field. they've come out and both politic parties have repor that he has no idea what he's t about. even confron with the facts he doesn't want to learn them. the few es he tries to de with the facts, he reves a profound misunderstanding, what's at stake? just listen for a second, listen to him. he belittles our closest lies in this hemisphere and in europe. nations that stand with us are part of our security network that are with us when we address every internation chlenge. those who fought and bled ongside us for decades, he wants to toss those relationships aside, like the ones that -- like his failed business ventures, or something. in the meane, he tks cavierly, about encourage -- and other nations as  poin out -- to develop nuclear weapons as if nuclear war is some trivi affair. does he not understand we wrote japan's constitution to say they could not be a nuclear power? where was he when -- in school (ph)? (laughter) someone who lacks this judgment cannot be trus. there's a guy that follows me right back here, has the nuclear codes. so god forbid anything happened, the president and i had to make a decision the codes are with me l -- he is not quified to know the codes. (applause) he can't be trus. (applause) i was proud, my son beau served for a year in iraq, came back a highly decora soldier. i must tell you -- i must tell you that a   for president -- i would've thrown my body in front of him. no, i rely mean it, to keep it from going if the judgment was based on 's decision. every president since harry truman has looked toward a europe -- whole, free and at peace. one of the most consequenti people right now who's trying to undo that is a man that   says he admires. now, i'm not big on the character assassination stuff. i rely mean that. i mean look at -- look at everything any campaign i've ever run. i'm just trying to like that old program of where we run just the facts ma'am, nothing but the facts? (laughter) oh, that was  friday, actuly. (laughter) but he says he admires  . (audience boos) no, no, no, no, no it's more than -- it's more than the boos, here's the de. what is 's objective as --  knows as well as anyone deing with  as i have and the president, has and  kerry?  is determined to crack nato and crack the european liance. that is his overarching, overwhelming interest. i'm heading from here, getting on a plane and flying to kosovo then to serbia then i'm going to the btic states. you know one of the reasons i'm going? is to make sure to reassure those who remember the nato and the btic states we mean what we say. we mean what we say, the sacred liance of 60 years because they're worried. (applause) listen to his comments about ukraine, are you sure that russia will not move on ukraine? but him -- without understanding they've ready moved on ukraine and occupy crimea. this guy's shame has no limits; he's even got so far as to ask  and russia to conduct cyber attacks against the uni states of ama. (audience boos) no, no even if he is jo -- which he's not --even if he's jo, what an outrageous thing to say. look, folks. these are not isola examples. he's even showered praise on saddam hussein, one of the most violent dictators of the 20th century, a man who repey backed terror attacks against israel because he was supposedly -- the reason he admires him -- he was a killer of terrorists, that's why he likes saddam. he would've loved stin, he would've loved stin. look, this -- this says a lot about his approach that explains why he so often embraced tactics of terrorists, enemies themselves.>
<: religious intolerance, casting entire communities as culpable for the acts of a few of the community, torture, when he knows it's illeg, and says, he would still order it even though the military commanders said they would not obey his orders. when can you think of ever in history where military commanders have said before a man or woman is elec that they would not follow his orders? threatening to kill innocent family members of suspects, indiscriminate bombing, what he cls for. that's how anyone hoping to lead this great democracy in the world should behave? look, he likes autocrats, he wills the politics of fear and intolerance, cling for a ban on muslims in the uni states, slandering proud muslim parents of a gold star family who paid the ulate sacrifice, threatening to send aman citizens to guantanamo. i tell you, this guy's ok?>
<audience: no, no, no.>
<: look, 's ideas are not only profoundly wrong, they're very dangerous and they're very un-aman. you know, they reve a profound ignorance of our constitution. it's a recipe for playing into the hands of terrorists and their propaganda. last year, isil's top leader who we had been trac since we got bin laden - , me, , everyone else, the president - his name is -baghdadi -- and he reveed the go of isil, he just said it straight out. you can go on their website. he said their go is to, quote, "compel the crusaders to actively destroy the gray zones themselves," meaning anywhere where tians and muslims live, he cls a gray zone. he said the objective is to actively destroy that gray zone. muslims in the west, he says, will have to quickly find themselves between two choices. either apostatize or emigrate to the islamic state and thereby escape prosecution. how does he make the case? by pointing out that no muslim is welcome in the west. isil wants to manufacture a clash of civilizations between us versus them.  is trying to give them exactly what they want. last week he stood in front of a crowd in florida and said president  founded a terrorist organization, isil. now, look. look. this, i rely should end with. you know, that's an outrageous statement, but let me tell you why it's a dangerous statement. why -- as he might say, the bad guys are listening. yesterday, the head of hezbollah, a terrorist organization, iran's top terrorist surrogate, and a direct threat to our ly israel, repea 's claim in the entire muslim world and - i mean, around the world, that president  founded isil. you say, well what difference does that make? here's exactly what the leader of hezbollah said referring to 's accusation. he said this, "this is not just a spokesman for isil" - excuse me, for hezbollah. "this is not a simple speech," referring to . "this -" i'm quoting him. "this is an aman presidenti candidate, this was spoken on behf of the aman  party, and he," meaning , "has the data and documents to back it up." if my son were still in iraq - and i say to l those who are there, the threat to their life has gone up a couple clicks. it's gone up a couple clicks. you saw what's happening in turkey, where some in turkey are accusing us of being part of the coup attempt. ladies and gentlemen, does he have any idea the adverse consequences these outlandish comments have on our lies, our friends, and the physic safety of our troops?  is ready ma our country less safe, and i'm testing your stamina so let me go to the end here. he has said, " hasn't forgotten more about aman foreign policies than  and his entire team will ever understand." ladies and gentlemen  has been there, she has been tes. i have been in the room with her as we jointly have with the president's leadership, sent some of these killers to the  of hell. at our weekly breakfast on the internation stage; she is strong, she's respec, she's admired. there is nothing that she does not understand about ama's place in the world. ladies and gentlemen, because she knows one thing, that   does not know -- it has never been a good bet to bet against the uni states of ama. give it a fair shot. give it a fair chance. amans have never, never never ever let their country down. never. ladies and gentlemen of scranton, we never low, we never d, we never kneel, we never yield, we own the finish line. that's who we are. we are ama. (applause) and she gets it. we are second to none. and   is going to write the next chapter in aman history. (applause)><title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in philadelphia, pa (sd)">
<date:"2016-08-16">
<:> hello, philadelphia. <applause> wow. i -- thank you. thank you. thank you so much. i -- i am so exci to be back in the city that hos the greatest convention. <applause> i -- i can't tell you, as i've been travelling across the country, how many people have said to me how much they loved being in philadelphia. <applause> and believe it or not, there -- there are some people who hadn't been to philadelphia before the convention and they left loving this city and i can't thank l of you enough for l the hospitity. i want to thank my long-e friend, congressman bob y. <applause> thanks to mayor jim kenney. <applause> state senator vincent hughes, state representative dwight evans, councilwoman jannie blackwell, city council president, darrell clarke, a long e friend of mine, former city councilwoman marian tasco. <applause> and l those who spoke in the pre-program and to everybody gathered here. it is exciting to be back, and as you heard, we want you l to register to vote. we have places to register because we don't want you on the sidelines come november. this is the most consequenti election. the stakes could not be higher. and we want everybody in philadelphia, everybody across pennsylvania, to be part of a great victory in november and then <ph> the future that we're going to build together. <applause> have any of you been watching the olympics? <applause> well, i've got to tell you, i am a big olympics fan. i -- those athletes, what they give up, the sacrifice, the work. i understand that philadelphia's own nia i just made the first round heat in the 100 meter hurdles today. team usa is showing the world what this country stands for. <applause> i am proud of our team there and i'm proud of the incredible teamwork that they show. i was thin the other day, when   speaks, he speaks about fear, he speaks about such negativity and such pessimism. and then i watched the olympics and it's exactly the opposite. you have young people going out, doing their best every day to get prepared to compete, and that's what we're going to do in ama.
<:> there is nothing we can't do if we put our minds to it. <applause>
<:> i, i was up in scranton yesterday with vice president  . <applause> <audio gap>
<:> and we had a great day. both  and i have, in scranton, so, we saw a lot of people that we're rela to, a lot of -- <audio gap>
<:> - - how do you do it? they see me on tv and on <ph> tape <ph> and i'm in another state, then i'm in another state, and i'm lucky i can sleep on -- <audio gap>
<:> - - and held. but what it's rely l about is getting up everyday and being motiva to make sure that every person <inaudible> and every person in this commonweth and every person in this country, has the e chance to live up to your dreams. the e opportunities that previous generations of amans enjoyed. <applause> <audio gap>
<:> - - educators in the audience who make dreams come true. <applause>
<:> because actuly, so i know what we can do together. but how are we going to pay for it? well i'll tell you how we're going to pay for it. 
<:> we're going where the money is. we're going after the super wethy. we're going after the corporations. we're going after wl street, so they pay their fair share. <applause> that's why i was so surprised when   came out and tked about the economy, because actuly he would give trillions of dollars in more tax breaks to the wethy. he wants a new tax loophole that we cl the  loophole, that would actuly help him and everybody else who is rely wethy to cut their tax rate in hf on a lot of their income. he wants to eliminate the estate tax which does nothing for 99.8 percent of l amans but you know if  is as wethy as he claims to be, it would save his family $4 ion. i got to tell you <inaudible> $4 ion. early childhood, helping our veterans, helping our law enforcement do what they need to do. helping more people get the job training and the skills training. in fact, we could hire 95,000 public school teachers for $4 ion. <applause> we could actuly-- <audio gap>
<:> -- heth care for our veterans for $4 ion. and we could invest in affordable housing and sml businesses for $4 ion. right here in pennsylvania. so i think we know what we need to do, the question is whether we will do it and that l comes down to who shows up and votes. that's why we have been registering voters in our campaign. we launched a drive to register 3 million voters and get those voters to commit to vote. it doesn't do you any good if you're registered and you don't show up, right? so we've got people waving over there. they've got their voter registration forms for you. <applause> and we want you to be part of this. so here's what i'm as. i'm as you to register yourself and i'm as you to ask everybody you know to register. because when we do that we make a commitment that we care about what's gonna happen in this election. 
<:> and we so care about winning back the senate, that <ph> ma the senate  again ... <applause> ... and trying to pick up some more s in the house of representatives. that will help too. <applause> you see i have this old-fashioned idea, loo at our last two  presidents, president  and ... <applause> ... and a guy named . that we got a lot done for ama when they were in office, right? <applause> you know when i hear folks criticizing president , i'm thin, "well what don't they like? they don't like the fact that he helped save the economy from the worst financi crash since the 1930s? they don't like the fact we now have 20 million more people who have access to affordable heth care? they don't like the fact that his intervention saved the auto industry and imposed the toughest new rules on wl street? what don't they like? when i hear people criticize  i think what don't they like? the peace or the prosperity? it's kind of hard to know.
<:> so don't be complacent, my friends, because even though we're doing fine right now, i'm not ta anybody anywhere for gran. we're going to work hard these next 85 days and i can't do it without your help. <applause> now, we have packets for you at the door so you can so canvass. meet your neighbors. canvass across west philly after this event. this evening we're opening our southwest philly office on 52nd and cedar. stop by. the deadline for registering is october the 11. so we have work to do. but here's what i promise you. i promise you that we're going to go not only as hard as we can to win this election, but then to go as hard as we can to achieve the results that the country needs. and that's why i tk specificly about what i want to do. i know that some people make fun of me. they say, oh she has l these plans, and you can go to my website and read my plans. but i'll tell you - you know why i do that? because i want you to know what i'm going to try to do so you can both help me and hold me accountable for doing what i told you i want to do. <applause> we want to create millions of new good jobs and infrastructure because our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports are fling apart. our water systems. our sewer systems are fling apart. and we so need a new modern electric grid to be able to take and distribute l the clean, renewable energy that we're going to be producing. and when people say to me we can't bring manufacturing back to the uni states, i say but i've seen it. i have seen what we can do. i have been in plants in pennsylvania, in ohio, across ama who are doing just that. and when i meet the people there's such pride and dignity. when i was in stown wire technologies on our bus trip with   and i met people wor there, i met a young marine veteran. he's been there now a couple of years. he is as proud as he can be because he's ma something that rely makes a difference. and that is expor around the world from stown, pennsylvania. so don't tell me we can't make things. i know we can. i was in a plant outside of detroit last week. it used to be an auto-supply plant. then in 2000 - it was star in 1955 by the gfather of the guy who's the chair of their board now. in 1955 they star, they were ma auto parts, then in 2000 their main customer, one of the auto makers, moved a lot of their production - now they could have been rely just broken by that. they could have said, you know what, we gotta close up shop. but that's not what they did. they were so determined to keep that business going. so they said, what skills do we have? what can we do now? and they got into the aerospace business. 
<:> there i saw the nosecone of a f-35. there i saw the parts they're ma for nasa for the rocket that will take astronauts on the manned mission to mars. in , michigan, a place that used to make auto parts, which is now literly ma rocket parts. and you know what i thought? i thought, wait a minute, this could have been one of those sort of, poor me stories. you know, we can't do it, we can't compete, but instead people got up and said yes we can and yes they did. right? <applause> and i star loo at the machines that they were using, a lot of precision machines made in germany, made in japan, made in ity. i said to the workers there, could we make those machines? they said, you bet we could. if we have the right partnership between our government and manufacturing, we can have a renaissance in manufacturing. and jobs that will give people good livings, and the pride and dignity of work. and here's something we don't say often enough. more than hf of the jobs that are predic for 2020, are not going to require a four year college degree. so i want to make college affordable for everybody and we're going to get that done. <applause> i want to help you refinance and pay down your student debt if you ready have that. but i so want to make sure community college is free and we have more technic education back in our high schools. i want us to have more apprenticeships so that more young people get the skills that they can use to fill those jobs in 2020. <applause> so i am opistic and another big area where i'm opistic is green renewable energy. where we're going to be the 21st century clean energy super power, not china, not germany, the uni states of ama. <applause> so, i know we can do this. we got ourselves out of the worst financi crash. we're standing, now we're going to start running again. and we are particularly going to focus on young people who have been left out of education and the job market. and middle aged and older people who have lost jobs and need new skills to be able to compete and win again in the job market. <applause> and while we're doing that, we're going to start at the very beginning with early childhood education univers pre-kindergarten. because we are stronger together and we need l of our people to feel that they've got a shot. you know, even abraham  tked about how important it was -- <audio gap>
<:> -- give every aman a fair shot in the race of life. that's what we've got to get back to. it's just wrong that some people do well and other people feel like they're never going to catch up. so i want to be a president, for not only s but s and independents too. i want to be a president for the struggling, the striving and the successful. i want to be a president for those who vo for me and those who don't vote for me because we are l in this together.<applause>
<:> so there's a lot we could do on the economy. there's a lot we can do on education. there's a lot we could do on hethcare. we are going to build on the affordable care act and we're going to get the cost of premiums, co-pays and deductibles down and we are going to tackle the high cost of prescription drugs. <applause> and we are going to do more to help people de with ment heth and addiction problems. <applause> i probably have more people t to me about ment heth and addiction than nearly anything else. you know, folks tk about the economy, they tk about education, but when it gets rely person. you know, i'm in a coffee shop or t to folks on a line here, and somebody takes my hand and pulls me closer, what they tk to me about is ment heth and addiction. <applause> and shame on us if we don't do more to help people who are suffering and families who are in pain because of that. <applause> and we are going to have a nation security and foreign policy that ama can be proud of. we are going to lead the world in accordance with our vue, in pursuance of our interests and furtherance of our security ong with our friends and lies. it just absolutely bewilders me when i hear   trying to tk about nation security. it's not just as   said, it's not just he doesn't know what he's t about, that's bad enough. but what he often says hurts us. it sends the wrong message to friend and foe ike in the world. <applause> and we are living in a complex world. one where we need steadiness, where we've got to have a re sense of how we're going to get where we want to go, to help as many people, to keep our country safe. but to do it with the kind of bigness, the kind of confidence that rely marks ama at our best. you know, somees when i hear  t about how we should l be so afraid l the e. and then i find a few minutes to watch the olympics, i think my goodness, you know, when you go out and compete, not everybody can win but you got to do your best. <applause> and can you imagine, you know,  phelps or simone biles or l these other great aman athletes, in the locker rooms, well i don't know i'm too afraid to go out and compete. no, they get out there. they compete. they do their best. they demonstrate the kind of spirit that we want from l amans. <applause> and then finly, i think we have to defend the advances and rights that we have made here in ama. and - - <applause> i am very proud of our young people. this is the most tolerant and generous generation that we've ever seen in ama. and yes, we are going to defend n rights, and civil rights and women's rights and gay rights and voter rights, and worker rights. <applause>
<:> because if we're going to lift everybody up, we need to do it in a way that lets those people feel that their dignity is respec as well. and yes, i am going to take on the gun lobby to try to save lives here in philadelphia and across pennsylvania. <applause>
<audience: ! ! ! !>
<:> and as i -- as i said here in philadelphia in my speech, that doesn't mean i want to abolish the second amendment. that doesn't mean that i wanna round up people's guns. what that means is i wanna keep you from being shot by somebody who shouldn't have a gun in the first place. <applause> we can't let this go on, we need comprehensive background checks. close the gun show loophole, the online loophole. we need to pass a law finly that says people who are on the terrorist watch list can't buy -- can't buy weapons in ama. <applause> so i'm exci about what we can do but first, we gotta get there. so let me thank you for being out here on a hot, august afternoon at this beautiful high school. <applause> and let me ask you to be sure to register to canvass to be part of this campaign because i'm not trying to just win an election. i'm trying to build a base of voters who understand that we've gotta stand up for these rights. we have to work for these causes, we have to be commit to these gos, who will get up with me after the election and work to make sure that we actuly deliver the results that we l know we need. so my friends, lets go to work and let's build the future that ama deserves. thank you and god bless you! <title="  delivers remarks at a campaign event in cincinnati, ohio">
<date:"2016-10-31">
<:> thank you. 
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> thank you so much. wow. it is great to be back in cincinnati. <applause> what a beautiful night on the banks of this magnificent river. i am grateful to l of you. i am thrilled to be here with my dear friends mark and gabby, and with l of you. because, there are just eight days left in what is the most important election of our lifees. <applause> are you ready to work hard in this election and win it? <applause> are you ready to send  stland to the uni states senate? <applause> you know, i've known  a long e. he is a champion for workers and families. he knows that ohio needs more good jobs with rising wages. and he is the kind of person who will actuly work to get things done, brea through the gridlock in washington. <applause> and this is important, unlike his opponent,  stland has never been afraid to stand up to  . <applause> i so want to thank mayor  cranley and state representative icia reece and l the other elec officis, including my friend, the secretary of state, ison lundergan grimes, from across the river, in kentucky. <applause> and we are so fortunate to have two other champions for aman families with us today. i am awed by the courage and commitment that both mark and gabby bring to their work. to do everything they can to help save lives in ama. <applause> you know, as gabby says, everyday when she goes out, fight, fight, fight. and fight she does. she fights to make sure that we save lives and we prevent injuries. and we do it together, to end the epidemic of gun violence that threatens our children, our fellow men and women, our country. <applause> and, gabby and mark know something very important. there is a big majority of amans -- including a majority of gun owners -- to stand behind and achieve common sense gun safety measures. and... <applause> ... i am loo forward to wor with them as their partner. you know, you go through life, you go through the campaigns. there's ups and there're downs. and you know, my mother, who had a rely difficult life. she told me something that has stayed with me, and certainly has come in handy in this campaign. everybody gets knocked down, what matters is whether you get back up. <applause> and throughout this campaign, i have stayed focused on one thing, you. your lives, your families, the problems that keep you up at night. because that's rely what this election is l about. it's not about the noise and the distractions. it's about what kind of country we want for our kids. and what kind of president can help get us there. i -- i -- you know, i -- i have so much that i want to do with you, on behf of cincinnati and ohio and ama. and whether or not i get the chance to serve you rely depends on what happens in this election. <applause> now, earlier -- earlier today -- earlier today i was up at kent state -- a great university -- and i told them about some of the reasons why i think it's rely important to get everybody out to vote in this election. but i star by saying, you know, there's this new e-mail story about, you know, why in the world the fbi... <booing> ... would decide to jump into an election without evidence of any wrong doing, with just days to go. that's a rely good question. but i want you to know, look, i've said repey. on -- i -- you know, i made a mistake. i'm not ma any excuses. but i will tell you this, if they want to look at some more e-mails of one of my staffers, by l means, go ahead, look at them. and i know they will reach the e conclusion they reached when they looked at my e-mails last year. right? <applause> it wasn't even a close cl, and i think most people have moved on. they're loo and focused on, ok. who is going to be the next president and commander-in-chief? <applause> did any of you see -- did any of you see the debates? any of you see the debates?
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> i -- i got a little bit of a chance. you know, i did stand there for four-and-a-hf hours with  , proving conclusively i have the stamina to do the job. <applause> but -- but i did occasionly get the chance to, you know, ask people to take a look at my 30 years of public service, my plans for our country, what   and i have said we want to do. and then weigh that against my opponent, what he's done and said. i -- i am running against someone who says he doesn't understand why we can't use nuclear weapons. he actuly said, then why are we ma them? he wants more countries to have nuclear weapons. he's mentioned japan, south korea, even saudi arabia. now if you are hoping that he might surround himself with good people who would stop his crazy ideas remember this. when he was asked who he consults with on foreign policy,   said he didn't need to consult. because, and i quote, "i have a very good brain." <laughter> he said he knows more about isis than our geners do. <booing> no , you don't. and of course, the people that   has around him include two men who's activities are so reporly being investiga because of their ties to russia,   and their lies. so in these last days, lets not get distrac from the re choice in this election.   has proven himself to be temperamently unfit and totly unquified to be president and commander-in-chief. <applause> i have to tell you, that -- it does not give me any pleasure saying that. it's not a sml thing. i -- i have watched and known a lot of the people who have run for president, both s and s. and look i've had my disagreements with s, i might have disagreed on policies or principles. but i never doub their fitness to serve in this office.   is different. and that's why there is so much at stake in this election. he has a dark and divisive vision for ama that could tear our country apart. abraham  understood a house divided against itself cannot stand. and that was over the greatest of chlenges, the chlenge posed by slavery. and we fought a civil war. but we so have to take stock of how divided we are today. the kinds of divisions that need to be heed to bring people together. i will tell you this. i want to bring, not just s, but s and independents. people who will vote for me and people who vote against me together. <applause> because i have a very different vision of ama. instead of dark and divisive, it's ful and inclusive. it's big hear, not sml minded. <applause> it is about lifting people up, not putting them down. it's a vision that says, and i believe this with l my heart. we are stronger together. and... <applause> ... ama is great because ama is good, never forget that. yes, we have our flaws, of course, we're only ns. but what we have done over the course of our history to keep widening the circle of opportunity and equity and freedom, is unlike any other place in the history of the world. so, we want an ama where women are respec... <applause> ... where our veterans are honored... <applause> ... where parents and families are suppor and workers are paid fairly. and we believe in an ama where marriage is a right and discrimination is wrong... <applause> ... an ama that leads in the world and lives up to our vues, where everyone counts, everyone has a place, and the aman dream is big enough for everybody. so the choice could not be clearer and the stakes could not be higher. when i was at kent state t about the threats that   poses to our nation security, i was rely struck. it was a very big crowd and it was primarily students. and you know, i thought to myself, well i'm not going to give a rah-rah speech, because i rely want to tk about what this means to nation security. and i was introduced by a gentleman named bruce blair, a former air force officer in charge of the nuclear codes and keys, a launch officer. and, he came out for me ong with more than 30 launch officers and basicly they said, we cannot support   because he should never, ever be near the nuclear codes and keys. <applause> and, even the prospect of an actu nuclear war doesn't seem to bother him. good luck, enjoy yourselves folks, is what he had to stay about a potenti nuclear conflict in asia. i wonder if he even knows that a single -- a single nuclear warhead can kill millions of people. you know, that is why dozens of retired nuclear launch officers took the unpreceden step in saying that   should and i quote, "not have his finger on the button." and when it comes to handling a crisis, we've seen in this campaign that   loses his cool at the slightest provocation. when he's gotten a tough question from a reporter, or when he's chlenged in a debate, or when he sees a protester at a rly, when he's confron by his own words. so imagine him in the ov office facing a re crisis. <booing> imagine him plunging us into a war because somebody got under his very thin skin. i  you'll think about that when you cast your vote in this election. think about what it takes to lead in a very complica world. and in who's hands you want to put the safety of our children and gchildren. and think about the difference between electing a president who will do nothing, and a president who will tackle the epidemic of gun violence in ama. <applause> you know, as gabby knows so well, 33,000 amans a year are killed by guns, thousands more are injured. it's an average of 90 people a day dying. here in ohio, more people are killed by guns than die in car crashes. we have seen movie-goers gunned down in theaters, little children killed in their classrooms, club-goers massacred in orlando, nine faithful people murdered at bible study in charleston, south carolina. and we've seen far too many young african-aman men and women killed by gun violence, which is now the leading cause of death for young black men. <applause> and when we think about that, we think of dontre hamilton or jordan davis or trayvon  and others. i've had the great honor of getting to know their mothers. who have turned their grief into action and their mourning into a movement. but here's what i want to say, if anything else in our country were killing as many people, people of good faith, people who believe, like we do in the 2nd amendment. people who own guns, people who go hunting, people who are collectors, we would say, hey wait a minute, this can't go on. we need comprehensive background checks to close the gun show loop hole, close the online loop hole. <applause> and we know, here in ohio, a majority of gun owners support these common sense steps to prevent gun violence. because they know we can respect the 2nd amendment and keep our kids and communities safe at the e e. and we need to keep guns out of the hands of suspec terrorists. if you are too dangerous to fly, you are too dangerous to buy a gun, period. <applause> and look, there is -- there is a very clear difference.   won't stand up to the gun lobby, he's sold out to them. in fact, the gun lobby is spending more on ads to get   elec than any other group, more than $7 million in ohio one. and in return,   has promised to repe president 's actions to strengthen crimin background checks.  says, guns should be lowed in nightclubs that serve cohol. he's even said on his very first day in office he would require every school in ama to let people carry guns into our classrooms. <booing> how can anyone think our schools will be safer with more guns? so i have stood up to the gun lobby for years -- which is why they are running l these ads against me -- and i will stand up to them as president. <applause> i will work with gabby and mark and amans for responsible solutions to pass common sense reforms. because, we've got to keep guns out of the wrong hands, and help save lives. i will so get up everyday in the white house wor my heart out for you. whatever i can do to knock down barriers to empower people. to get the economy wor for everybody, not just those at the top, that's how i was raised. i was raised to believe, that if you work hard -- and i believe in hard work -- you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead in ama. <applause> and i will never, ever quit on you. when i tell you i'm going to try to do something that will make a positive difference in your life, i don't care what the politic or other barriers are, we're going to find a way over, under, around or through until we get it done. <applause> i've been fighting for families and underdogs my entire life. and i'm not stopping now. <applause> so just remember, when our opponents go low, we go high. <applause> we're not going to be distrac. we're not going to be knocked off course. we know how much this election matters. and everything l of you can do, between now and the e that the polls close is going to rely count. now the   campaign strategy is pretty simple, they've announced it. their strategy is get women to stay home, get young people to stay home, and get people of color to stay home. <booing> it's l part of his scorched earth campaign. but actuly adds up to more than hf of our whole population when you stop to think about it, and it goes against everything we stand for. so if you're as upset as i am by the campaign that he has run, the things he has said. insulting, not just women but immigrants, latinos, african- amans, prisoners of war, muslims, veterans, the military, i mean the list goes on and on. it's most impossible to understand how somebody could run for president who seems not to like ama as much as he does. <applause> so, you know the best way to stop him? by showing up with the biggest turnout in history. <applause> we need more amans to vote, and i think we have a chance to get more amans from l wks of life to vote. because we're ready seeing record turnout, 23 million people have ready vo in this election, and more than 1 million of them are right here in ohio. <applause> there is no doubt. if we vote, we win. so... <applause> ... please if you haven't vo early, please do so. and please get your friends and your family, everybody you know to vote. take people to vote with you. try to help those who might have a little problem getting there. make sure that everybody you know understands early voting has begun. and you can go to iwillvote.com to find your nearest early voting location. because make no mistake, whatever issue you care about -- i've only mentioned a few tonight -- but whatever issue you care about is on the blot. now maybe my name and my opponents name, but where we stand on these issues, what we've done in the past, what we have said we want to do in the future, that is l on the blot. the future of our economy is at stake. of our education system is at stake. fighting climate change and clean renewable energy jobs are at stake. <applause> lgbt equity is at stake. <applause> equ pay for women is at stake. <applause> actuly, in the end, the aman dream itself is at stake. so i want you to think about how you'll feel on november 9th. happy? <applause> i think that's the right answer. <applause> but just suppose -- just suppose you go to bed early -- suppose you go to bed early. maybe you were too busy to vote, or maybe you didn't make cls, or knocked on doors. i want you to imagine, so you get up early on the morning of the 9th, and you log on to news to find out, hey what's going on, or maybe you turn on the tv or the radio and you hear. <booing> i want you to rely understand what that means for you and for l of us. because i prefer for us to be motiva by what we're for, not what we're against. <applause> but i so think it's prudent to imagine what could happen if we don't do our part. and when, in the future, somebody asks you, maybe your kids or your gkids, what did you do when everything was on the line? i want you to be able to say, i vo for a better, fairer, stronger ama. <applause> let's go out and in these next eight days do everything we can to make it clear, we're going after the kind of future that includes everybody. we're going to build this economy. new jobs, rising rages, we're going to make college affordable, and help you pay down your student debt. we are going to do what will give you the best chance for your own lives and the lives of our kids and our gkids. so if we build that future together, we will be able to say we were part of ma sure that ama's best days are still ahead of us. <applause> and we will prove once and for l that love s hate. thank you l.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event, reigh, north carolina">
<date:"2016-11-08">
<:> thank you l. <applause> thank you. <applause> thank you. <applause> well, i've got to tell you, this is sure worth staying up for. <applause> it is so great to be here in reigh, here at north carolina state. <applause> and i cannot imagine a better way of ending this campaign than having the opportunity to see l of you and to watch and listen to lady gaga. <applause> one of the most inventive, creative and passionate performers, whose range goes from a to z and beyond. and i was watching on the screen not only her perform, but l of you jumping and singing and waving. it was great. <applause> because you know what? that's what i want for ama, and the young people of ama -- the joy, the passion, the... <applause> and you know, our long-term friend jon bon jovi was with us. <applause> he was with us up in philadelphia where he and bruce springsteen sang. <applause> and jon said "well, hey, i want to go down to reigh" and so here he is. <applause> and you know, between now and the e the poll closes tomorrow, we are going to be living on a prayer. <applause> i was rely impressed when everybody's hand went up saying you'd ready vo. well, go find somebody else who hasn't vo, ok? <applause> bring out your friends, your roommates, strangers on the street. <laughter> just stop and tk to them about what's at stake in this election because north carolina is key. and it's not only important for our election. are you ready to elect roy cooper as your next governor? <applause> well, i sure  so. i sure  so and i  you're ready to elect linda coleman your lieutenant governor. <applause> and how about dan blue iii for state treasurer? <applause> and i rely, rely  you will send deborah ross to washington. <applause> now, we are l fired up. when we were with the president and  in philadelphia... <applause> ... you know, the president was t about how absolutely consequenti this election is and of course it is. i -- i rely believe it's the most important election of our lifees because we've never had a clearer choice. never. <applause> it is a choice between division or unity, between strong, steady leadership or a loose cannon who could risk everything. <applause> it's a choice between an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top, and it... <applause> ... it is a choice that rely goes to the heart of who we are as amans. what i saw before i came in and what i see now is a sense of potenti, of joy. there is no reason, my friends, why ama's best days are not ahead of us if we... <applause> ... reach for them together. <applause> we don't have to accept a dark and divisive vision for ama. tomorrow, you can vote for a ful, inclusive, big-hear ama. <applause> our core vues -- our core vues are being tes in this election. but my faith in our future has never been stronger. i love our country and i believe in the aman people. and i know if we bring everyone together, we can set gos and we can move toward them and we can feel that sense of accomplishment that comes with being part of something bigger than ourselves. <applause> you know, one of the -- one of the great privileges of crisscrossing the country as i have in this campaign is meeting remarkable people. people who stand up against the odds. people who, like my late mother, people who understand that everybody gets knocked down. what matters is whether you get back up. whether you believe you can keep going. <applause> last night in manchester, new hampshire, i had the honor of being introduced by an extraordinary man, khizr khan who's son captain khan was killed serving our country in iraq. <applause> you may remember mr. khan's speech at the  convention., and... <applause> again, last night, he reminded us of the responsibility we l share to protect and defend our constitution. the story of captain khan is one of courage in the face of danger. he was with his unit when he saw a suspicious vehicle. he told his men to stay back. he moved toward the vehicle to check it out and the bomb went off. he lost his life, but everyone else in his unit survived. he was awarded the bronze star. <applause> and this intensely person tragedy that the khan family experiences, becoming a gold star family, was one that they thought about, grieved over in the privacy of their home. until they heard my opponent start t about who was acceptable in ama and who wasn't. the categories of people, starting with immigrants, including african-amans and latinos and pows and muslims. the list went on and on. and it crea in mr. khan a sense of despair because he asked himself: would his son have a place in  's ama, someone who paid the ulate price in serving our country? well, we can answer that question tomorrow, resoundingly, yes, absolutely. <applause> think about -- think about how generations of amans throughout our history have come together to meet the tests of their e. our parents, our gparents, our great-gparents defended democracy. they built the great aman middle class. they marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers' rights and women's rights, for <inaudible> and the rights of people with disabilities. and tomorrow we face the test of our e. so, remember, it's not just my name or  's name on the blot. it's the kind of country we want. it's every issue anyone cares about. so if you believe ama thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote tomorrow. if you believe we should make the biggest investment in new jobs since world war ii in infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, clean energy, sml business, then you have to vote. <applause> if you believe we need more fairness in our economy, to raise the minimum wage because no one who works full-e should still be in poverty, then you have to vote. if you believe we need to do more to support wor families with affordable child care, paid leave and equ pay for women, then you have to vote. <applause> and remember, when my opponent says every e i tk about these issues that i'm playing the woman's card, well, you know what i say de me in. <applause> and if you believe -- if you believe l kids deserve good schools with good teachers, no matter what zip code they live in, you have to vote. and if you believe college should be more affordable, you have to vote. <applause>   and i worked on a plan to make public colleges and universities tuition-free... <applause> ... if you earn less than $125,000, and debt-free for everybody else. <applause> and for the millions of amans struggling with student debt, we are going to help you pay that down and pay that off. <applause> if you believe in science and that we've got to address climate change, you have to vote. <applause> if you believe we need to reform our crimin justice system so... <applause> ... then you have to vote. and if you believe -- if you believe we should never write discrimination into our laws... <applause> ... well then, you know -- you know, north carolina, you've got to vote to get rid of hb2. <applause> now, this is so energizing. we could -- we could keep going with a long list. <applause> but here's what -- here's what else i want you to know. good thing this election didn't land during exams. that's l i can say. <applause> look, tomorrow -- tomorrow night, this election will end, but i want you to understand our work together will be just beginning. <applause> we have to bridge the divides in this country. as the bible says, we have to repair the breaches. we've got to be willing to start listening to each other again, respecting each other again. <applause> and i -- i want to thank gaga because she has ways stood for that fundament principle of respecting... <applause> so, i want you to know and i want you to spread the word, i do want to be president for l amans, not just some, not just the people who support me and vote for me. i want to be president for everyone. because we l have a role to play in building that better future for our country and for each of you. <applause> so, if you haven't vo yet, go to iwillvote.com. you can get l the info you need, and you can still sign up to volunteer, right? <applause> go to .com or text join -- j-o-i-n -- 42746, or stop by one of our offices. we would welcome you to help make sure everybody gets out to vote tomorrow. <applause> because none of us want to wake up wednesday morning and wish we had done more, right? <applause> and years from today, when your kids and gkids ask what you did in 2016, when everything was on the line, you'll be able to say you vo for a stronger, fairer, better ama. <applause> an ama where we build bridges, not wls. <applause> and where -- where we prove conclusively that yes, love s hate. thank you. thanks so much. god bless you. thank you l.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in cleveland, ohio (sd)">
<date:"2016-08-17">
<:> hello. <applause> thank you. <applause> thank you so much. wow. oh, i -- i am so happy to be here. it is great being in cleveland. thank you l. <applause> i want to thank kim bratak <ph>, a teacher right here at  marshl, for introducing me. <applause> and i want to thank l the teachers and educators, the staff and the students of  marshl. <applause> i am deligh to be here with your mayor, mayor frank jackson. <applause> so, with my long-e friend, your former governor, candidate for the senate,  stland. <applause> with your county executive, county executive budish, i know is here somewhere. <applause> and with my great friend, who did an excellent job presiding over the  nation convention, congresswoman marcia fudge. <applause> i ways love being here, and today is particularly speci because i got a tour of this high school. <applause> and i first of l want to thank the people of cleveland for investing in a high school that is rely l about the future. <applause> what a stark contrast this high school poses to what happened here in cleveland during the  convention. because honestly, they pain such a bleak, negative picture of ama. i couldn't recognize our country, listening to their angry speeches, the kind of negative view that they had of our people.   saying, "we never win anymore." well, tell that to the caviers. <applause> tell that to our olympic athletes who are cleaning up in rio. <applause> there is nothing we can't do if we put our minds to it. and that's how i want ama to feel about itself and how i want every aman to feel. and i saw the future -- the students and teachers who showed me what they're doing here in robotics in 3d design, in laser design, in entrepreneuri and civic education. i, for one, am rely proud of this high school and what it represents for the students here. <applause> and why is that so important for those of us who are no longer in high school? because we've got to get the economy wor for everybody, not just those at the top. and how are we going to do that? well, i know that too many families right here in ohio are feeling a lot of financi stress, worrying about they're going to make ends meet, deing with l the costs from childcare to prescription drugs. i understand that.
<:> that's why i have laid out specific plans about how we're going to get the economy wor for everyone. and i think it's important when someone comes to you and asks for your support running for president, that maybe they tell you what they want to do, so that you can decide who you want to vote for. <applause> and somees you know, i get criticized for doing that. people say, "oh, there she goes; she has another plan." <laughter> well, i do. i've got an infrastructure plan to create millions of jobs fixing our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports, our water systems, our sewer systems. <applause> as part of that plan, i want to start a nation infrastructure bank, so that we have public and private funds wor together, so we don't just wait on congress to act, but we are building, rebuilding, maintaining l the e. and it's not just what we can see, as important as that is. we need a new, modern electric grid that can take and distribute clean, renewable energy across ama. <applause> and we need to finly finish the job of connecting every home and business everywhere in ama, from inner cities to remote rur areas, to high-speed broadband access, so they can be a part of the 21st century digit economy. <applause> you know, i was t to a group of my friends who are teachers. i love teachers. thank you l for being here with me. <applause> and they were telling me that there had just been a nation survey done. and the teachers were asked, "do you ever" -- you know, "do you ever assign homework that requires your students to go on the internet?" and the answer was 70 percent, yes, they did. now, that makes perfect sense if you just saw what i saw. you gotta have knowledge of the internet. you've got to be able to learn to use it. it can spark your imagination, create new dreams. i met young people. i said, "well, what got you interes in computer design, 3-d design, robots? well, they were interes in the arts. they were interes in what they could do to design and make things. so, the answer was 70 percent of teachers, but here's the problem: 5 million students -- 5 million homes with students in them in ama do not have access to the internet. and so, we're ready creating a big gap -- a homework gap, which turns into an achievement gap, and doesn't give every kid the chance to go as far as his or her hard work and tent will take them. so, when i tk about infrastructure, i'm t about ma our economy more competitive and creating more opportunities for more amans willing to work for it. because i believe in the basic bargain if you're willing to work, you ought to be able to get ahead and stay ahead. that's how i was raised and that's what i want amans to believe again. <applause> you know, this past monday i was in scranton, pennsylvania, with  . <applause> and  was born in scranton. my gparents, my father was born in scranton. i went back to scranton every summer, lot of tmas holidays. my gfather was an immigrant; came as a young child. he worked in the scranton lace factory ma lace, which was a big de back in those days. i remember, we used to have lace curtains and lace tablecloths and things like that.<laughter>
<:> and my gfather worked rely hard, because he believed that if he worked hard, he could provide a better life for his kids. and he did. my dad got to go to college. he went to penn state, where he played footbl and... <applause> and he took a job in the midwest as a sesman and then went into the navy during world war ii. when he came out, he star a sml business and he worked rely hard. and i used to go help him somees because he prin fabric for draperies. and he had a print plant, and he had two long tables, and it was, you know, not a -- it was just an old plant -- it was low ceiling, no windows. and he would print that drapery fabric. he'd take an old- fashioned silk screen, and he'd put it down, and he'd pour the paint in, then take a squeegee and then go from one side to another, pick up the screen, keep going down the table. and he provided a good life. i grew up in a suburb of chicago and so i know what the aman dream is l about. i am proud to be the gdaughter of a factory worker and the daughter of a sml businessman, and standing here before you. <applause> and so when i think about how hard my dad worked, and i think about him printing those fabrics, and then loading them into his car, and delivering them to whoever ordered them, and then expecting to be paid because he had done the work, it just rely hits me personly when people are standing up and telling their stories. they were sml-business people, they were plumbers, electricians, painters who did work for   and he refused to pay them. that violates the basic bargain. if you do your job, you're supposed to be rewarded for your work, not stiffed, not told to go sue somebody. <applause> and i can't help but take it personly, because i think about what would have happened to my family if my father had taken a job like that and put his heart and soul into it, bought the materi, bought the paint, did the labor, shows up, delivers the product and is told, "we're not paying you." but person after person, sml business after sml business, is telling the e story, that they were not paid. they were told to go sue  . now, you're a sml business; you can't afford lawyers to go sue somebody. that's not the way it's supposed to work. so, when i tk about creating new jobs in infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, clean renewable energy, i so tk about creating more sml businesses. and sml businesses that will actuly grow and give more people a chance to fulfill their dreams and will be part of the basic bargain who will be paid for the work that they do so they can stay in business. <applause> now, i got to tell you, creating the jobs of the future means we've got to make sure that l amans, not just young amans, have l the education and l the skills that are needed. that's why i want to start with early childhood education so that more young kids get prepared to succeed in school. <applause> i want to see more technic education like i saw right here in  marshl across ama, so that high school students can be better prepared. you know, when we stopped doing vocation education some years ago, we basicly sent a message to so many young people: there's only one way to be successful in ama; you've got to go to a four- year college.
<:> that is so unfair and it's so untrue. <applause> actuly, if you look at job projections, more than hf of the jobs that will be available in ama in 2020 will not require a four-year college degree. and so, how are we going to get our people prepared? we're going to bring more technic education, not the old fashioned kind, but what i saw here at  marshl. we're going to bring computer coding, like i saw in a classroom just a few minutes ago. we're going to bring engineering and design work. we're going to give young kids in high school the chance to either, get that education right in their own school, or go to a community college that will provide it and give them credit to get them credentis, an associate degree, or credit to go on to a four- year college. so we're going to be more on apprenticeship programs. <applause> i want everybody who's willing to work to be prepared. i don't want any excuses. i'm a kind of no excuse person. if you are willing to do the work, i want to make sure we've got an economy that will produce the jobs. and then i want to make four-year college affordable. if you go to a four-year public college or university, it should be affordable. and we're going to make community college free for everybody that wants to go to community college. and we're going help everybody with student debt pay down the debt. get it off their backs. now, i think -- i think it's fair to say, ok, how are you going to do l that? that's fair to ask. well, we're going to do it in two ways. number one, we are going to tax the wethy who have made l of the income gains in the last 15 years. <applause> the super wethy, corporations, wl street, they're going to have to invest in education, in skills training, in infrastructure because, we have to grow this economy. we do need to have the resources to do that. and i've laid out what i want to do and how i would do it; closing the loopholes, creating a fairer tax system. but i've made very clear, i'm the only candidate who ran in either of the  or the  primary who said from the very beginning, i will not raise taxes on the middle class. the middle class has to catch up to they were before the great recession. <applause> and so, i've laid this l out. and so independent anysts, economists and others are loo at what i've said and what   has said. and in fact, according to an independent anysis, by moody's anytics, carried out by the man who was  mccain's economic adviser -- if you were to implement what i am proposing, we would create at least 10 million new jobs in the first term of my administration. <applause> by contrast, if you look at what  is proposing and how he wants to give huge tax breaks to people who are wethy like him, it would cost our economy 3.4 million jobs. now, this is not me saying it. this is an independent anysis saying it that has tried to look at this very objectively. but what does that mean for ohio?
<:> if we divide across the country by population, ohio would gain 376,000 jobs under my plans and lose more than 123,000 jobs under  's plans. <applause> and it's hard -- it's not hard to see why: because he wants to give tax cuts to big corporations, millionaires, wl street money managers. he's even crea a new tax loophole that we cl the  loophole, because it's rely good for . <laughter> it would let millionaires and ionaires cut their tax rate in hf on a lot of their income. under his plans,   would pay a lower tax rate than middle-class families. of course, we have no idea what tax rate he pays, because, unlike everybody else who's run for president in the last four or five decades, he refuses to release his tax returns, so the aman people can't rely judge. <applause> and then there's the estate tax which he wants to eliminate together. so if you believe   is as wethy as he claims -- we can't say that for sure but let's assume it -- he would -- by eliminating the estate tax -- save the  family $4 ion and do absolutely nothing for 99.8 percent of l amans. now, think about what we could do with $4 ion in ohio. we could build 280 new elementary schools. we could eliminate the outstanding student loan of 166,000 ohioans. <applause> we could provide heth care to 370,000 veterans. <applause> and we could sure rebuild every crumbling bridge in this state, and fix a lot of the highways that are causing folks to incur expenses. <applause>   doesn't need a tax cut. i don't need a tax cut. it's e for the wethiest amans, whoever you are, as well as corporations and wl street to pay your fair share in taxes. you have been successful in this country because of everything this country represents. we're going to stop giving tax breaks to corporations that out- source jobs and profits. we're going to reward those who invest in their employees again. if corporations move their headquarters overseas, we're going to slap an exit tax on them and try to persuade them not to move. <applause> we're going to add a new tax on multi-millionaires, crack down on tax gaming and close loopholes, and then use that money to make the kind of investments that will grow the economy for everybody. so here -- here's the bottom line. there are just 83 days left in this election. i keep track of them, cross them off. <laughter> and for anyone waiting for   to suddenly become more responsible... <laughter> ... remember what a great aman, maya angelou, said: "when someone shows you who they are, believe them."<applause>
<:> and i -- i think it's fair to say that   has shown us who he is, he can hire and fire anybody he wants from his campaign. they can make him read new words from a teleprompter. <laughter> but he is still the e man who insults gold star families, demeans women, mocks people with disabilities, and thinks he knows more about isis than our geners. <applause> there is no new  . this is it. and you know, i  you will tk to any of your friends who are flirting with the idea of voting for  . friends don't let friends vote for . <applause> so now -- now here's what i have to ask l of you. i'm proud that we have run a campaign of issues, not insults. that's what i'm going to continue to do for the next 83 days. because i think the details actuly matter. that's why i sweat the details. you know, i -- i rely care a lot about what happens to the young people and the families and our seniors. that's why i'm going to do everything i can to raise the nation minimum wage so that it is a living wage. <applause> i'm going to do everything i can to make sure that you have the heth care you need at an affordable price. <applause> and get the costs of prescription drugs down because they are once again getting out of reach. i was at an event the other day, and a very distinguished doctor, the head of a big hospit in new york, he said, "we've got to do something about prescription drug costs." this is not a -- not a patient or a family. this is one of the most distinguished doctors in new york city. he said, "it's getting to the point where i can't prescribe certain drugs that my patients need because the insurance won't pay for them; medicare, medicaid -- nobody will pay for them because they are too expensive." and he mentioned particularly a drug by gilead that will cure hepatitis c. and it is so expensive that a lot of amans are being left out. and you know what rely is upsetting about this? is that drug company sells that e drug l over the world at a much lower price to everybody else. now, i'm proud -- i'm proud that our drug companies invent drugs to cure rely terrible diseases and treat chronic diseases. i'm proud of that. but let's be clear. your tax dollars help support the research that is used to create those drugs in the first place. <applause> your tax dollars support the food and drug administration that tests those drugs to determine whether or not they are safe and effective to be able to go to market. and then we end up in ama paying the highest price for those drugs that we have helped to create. we have got to take this on. and we can do it without hurting research and discovery and new drugs and new devices.<applause>
<:> and there are two other issues that i want to mention respecting heth, because i've been on the campaign trail now for -- well, about a year and a hf ever since april of 2015. so i have tked with and mostly listened to thousands of amans. now, people tk to me about their jobs, they tk to me about education, they tk to me about student loans and the high costs of college. they tk to me a lot about gun violence. they tk to me a lot about the things that are on their minds. but the most emotion encounters i have are when families grab my hand and tk to me about ment heth and addition. <applause> we have got to do a better job. we have too many families and too many individu amans whose lives are being either totly undermined or shortened because of ment heth and because of addiction. so i'm going to work on those things too as your president because we've got to tackle these two problems. <applause> and i so want to defend the rights that amans now have from l of the various attacks that people are waging. that's why i -- i support n rights and civil rights. i support women's rights. <applause> and yes, i will defend planned parenthood against l of these partisan attacks. <applause> i support gay rights. <applause> voting rights which are under attack across ama including right here in ohio. <applause> i support worker's rights, the right to form and organize a union and bargain collectively. <applause> i support the rights of people with disabilities who deserve more chances to be integra into the economy and society. <applause> and yes, i will take on the gun lobby and try to get common sense gun safety measures passed. <applause> and know -- i know -- i know how difficult this is but here is what i want to say. i want to say what i said at the convention in my speech, i am not at l advocating the repe of the second amendment. i am not at l advocating any program that would in any way take people's guns away. here is what i'm advocating. i want to help you stay ive so that nobody who shouldn't have a gun in the first place gets one and hurts you or other people. <applause> because when i think about the three big chlenges the next president faces; getting the economy to work for everybody not just those at the top, keeping us safe and leading the world with steadiness, and unifying ama. it's not just the job for the president, we l have to do our part. <applause> and when it comes to keeping amans safe, i want to keep you safe in your own communities and your homes from gun violence. i want to keep us safe from terrorists no matter where they are from or what they are after.<applause>
<:> i want to make sure that we keep our liances strong because i know how important it is that we work together to defeat the terrorist threat. and i will bring l the experience i had as a senator, serving on the armed services comee, as a secretary of state to make sure that ama remains the most free, the most safe, the most important leader in the world. <applause> but i so want to unify our country. you know, i bet if we had the e, we'd find something that every single one of us disagreed about with everybody else. we have different experiences, different backgrounds. i think that's part of the aman dna. you know, our founders had some big arguments. we have a lot of impassioned people who care about the future of our country and what we should do. <applause> but at the end of the argument, we've got to come together. we are the greatest example of freedom, and opportunity, and justice that the world has ever known, and we can't do anything that ever undermines that. and that's why it is so important that we seek and find common ground together. i did that as a first lady, i worked with s to create the children's heth insurance program, that now covers 8 million kids. <applause> i worked with s to reform the adoption and foster care system, which i care deeply about. <applause> i worked with s after 9/11 to rebuild new york and to make our country safer, to get heth care to nation guard men and women. i worked with every  i served with just about. i worked with s as secretary of state. we got a new treaty with russia to lower the number of nuclear weapons and that took 67 votes and we had to get s, as well as s to agree with that. <applause> i happen to believe i don't have l the answers. i happen to believe we are stronger together in charting a course toward the future. <applause> so, i need your help, stronger together is not just a slogan for our campaign, it is what i believe in my heart. i will get up everyday in the white house, trying to figure out how we're going to create more jobs, more opportunity, keep us safe, unify us, and that's where you come in. i  you will join this campaign. you can do so today, by texting join, join at 42746 or you can go to  .com. we're hiring organizers in ohio. so if your interes in wor as an organizer, see one of our people who will be at the doors as you leave. if this a consequenti election, i understand a lot of the concerns that many amans have, wondering and worrying about our country. about their lives, about their kids lives, about their retirement, about the purpose and dignity of their work. so i know we've got chlenges that we have to address. but i am absolutely sure we can do this, i believe ama's best days are still ahead of us. <applause> if you will join this campaign. join our cause. together we will, not just win an election but chart a course of confidence and opism, getting results for the aman people. come join me, please. thank you l very much. <applause><title="  delivers remarks at the 2016  nation convention">
<date:"2016-07-28">
<:> thank you. thank you so much. <applause> thank you. thank you l so much. <applause>
<:> thank you! thank you! <applause> thank you l very, very much! thank you for that amazing welcome! thank you l for the great convention that we've had. <applause> and , thank you. i am so proud to be your mother and so proud of the woman you've become. thank you for bringing mark into our family and charlotte and aidan into the world. and , that conversation we star in the law library 45 years ago... <applause> ...it is still going strong.
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> you know, that conversation has las through good es that filled us with joy and hard es that tes us. and i've even gotten a few words in ong the way. <applause> on tuesday night i was so happy to see that my "explainer in chief" is still on the job. i'm so grateful to the rest of my family and to the friends of a lifee. to l of you whose hard work brought us here tonight and to those of you who joined this campaign this week, thank you. what a remarkable week it's been! <applause> we heard the man from ,  , and the man of ,  . <applause> ama is stronger because of president 's leadership. and i'm better because of his friendship. <applause> we heard from our terrific vice president, the one and only  . <applause> he spoke from his big heart about our party's commitment to wor people as only he can do. and first lady   reminded us... <applause> ...that our children are watching. and the president we elect is going to be their president, too. and for those of you out there who are just getting to know  ... <applause> ...you will soon understand why the people of virginia keep promoting him from city council and mayor to governor and now senator. and he will make our whole country proud as our vice president. <applause> and i want to thank  . <applause> , your campaign inspired millions of amans, particularly the young people who threw their hearts and souls into our primary. <applause> you've put economic and soci justice issues front and center where they belong. <applause> and to l of your supporters here and around the country, i want you to know i've heard you. your cause is our cause. <applause> our country needs your ideas, energy and passion. that is the only way we can turn our progressive platform into re change for ama. <applause> we wrote it together, now let's go out and make it happen together! <applause> my friends, we've come to philadelphia, the birthplace of our nation, because what happened in this city 240 years ago still has something to teach us today. we l know the story, but we usuly focus on how it turned out and not enough on how close that story came to never being written at l. when representatives from 13 unruly colonies met just down the road from here, some wan to stick with the  and some wan to stick it to the . <laughter> the revolution hung in the bance, and somehow they began listening to each other, compromising, finding common purpose. and by the e they left philadelphia, they had begun to see themselves as one nation. that's what made it possible to stand up to a . that took courage, they had courage. our founders embraced the enduring truth that we are stronger together. <applause> now ama is once again at a moment of reckoning. powerful forces are threatening to pull us apart. bonds of trust and respect are fraying. and just as with our founders, there are no guarantees. it truly is up to us. we have to decide whether we will l work together so we can l rise together. <applause> our country's motto is e pluribus unum, out of many we are one. will we stay true to that motto? well, we heard  's answer last week at his convention. he wants to divide us from the rest of the world and from each other. he's betting that the perils of today's world will blind us to its unlimi promise. he's taken the  party a long way, from morning in ama to midnight in ama. he wants us to fear the future and fear each other. well, you know, a great  president franklin delano roosevelt came up with the perfect rebuke to  more than 80 years ago during a much more perilous e: the only thing we have to fear is fear itself! <applause> now, we are clear-eyed about what our country is up against. but we are not afraid. we will rise to the chlenge just as we ways have. we will not build a wl; instead, we will build an economy where everyone who wants a good job can get one. <applause> and we'll build a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants who are ready contributing to our economy. <applause> we will not ban a religion. we will work with l amans and our lies to fight and defeat terrorism. <applause>
<:> yet, we know there is a lot to do. too many people haven't had a pay raise since the crash. there's too much inequity, too little soci mobility, too much parysis in washington. too many threats at home and abroad. but just look for a minute at the strengths we bring as amans to meet these chlenges. we have the most dynamic and diverse people in the world. <applause> we have the most tolerant and generous young people we've ever had. <applause> we have the most powerful military, the most innovative entrepreneurs, the most enduring vues, freedom and equity, justice and opportunity, we should be so proud that those words are associa with us.
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> i have to tell you, as your secretary of state i went to 112 countries. when people hear those words, they hear ama! <applause> so don't let anyone tell you that our country is weak. we're not. don't let anyone tell you we don't have what it takes. we do. and most of l, don't believe anyone who says i one can fix it. <applause> yes, those were actuly  's words in cleveland. and they should set off arm bells for l of us. rely? i one can fix it? isn't he forgetting troops on the front lines, police officers and firefighters who run toward danger, doctors and nurses who care for us, teachers who change lives, entrepreneurs who see possibilities in every problem, mothers who lost children to violence and are building a movement to keep other kids safe? he's forgetting every last one of us. amans don't say "i one can fix it." we say "we'll fix it together!" <applause> and remember, remember, our founders fought a revolution and wrote a constitution so ama would never be a nation where one person had l the power. <applause> 240 years later, we still put our faith in each other. look at what happened in dlas after the assassinations of five brave police officers. police chief  brown asked the community to support his force, maybe even join them. and you know how the community responded? nearly 500 people applied in just 12 days. <applause> that's how amans answer when the cl for help goes out. twenty years ago i wrote a book cled "it takes a village." and a lot of people looked at the title and asked, what the heck do you mean by that? this is what i mean. none of us can raise a family, build a business, he a community or lift a country totly one. <applause> ama needs every one of us to lend our energy, our tents, our ambition to ma our nation better and stronger. i believe that with l my heart. that's why "stronger together" is not just a lesson from our history, it's not just a slogan for our campaign, it's a guiding principle for the country we've ways been and the future we're going to build, a country where the economy works for everyone, not just those at the top. <applause> where you can get a good job and send your kids to a good school, no matter what zip code you live in. a country where l our children can dream and those dreams are within reach, where families are strong, communities are safe and, yes, where love s hate. <applause> that's the country we're fighting for. that's the future we're wor toward. and so, my friends, it is with humility, determination and boundless confidence in ama's promise that i accept your nomination for president of the uni states! <applause> now, somees -- somees -- the people at this podium are new to the nation stage. as you know, i'm not one of those people. i've been your first lady, served eight years as a senator from the great state of new york... <applause> ...then i represen l of you as secretary of state. <applause>
<:> but my job titles only tell you what i've done. they don't tell you why. the truth is, through l these years of public service, the service part has ways come easier to me than the public part. i get it that some people just don't know what to make of me. <laughter> so let me tell you. the family i'm from, well, no one had their name on big buildings. my family were builders of a different kind, builders in the way most aman families are. they used whatever tools they had, whatever god gave them and whatever life in ama provided and built better lives and better futures for their kids. my gfather worked in the e scranton lace mill for 50 years. <applause> because he believed that if he gave everything he had, his children would have a better life than he did. and he was right. my dad, hugh, made it to college, he played footbl at penn state and enlis in the navy after pearl harbor. when the war was over, he star his own sml business printing fabric for draperies. i remember watching him stand for hours over silkscreens. he wan to give my brothers and me opportunities he never had, and he did. my mother, dorothy, was abandoned by her parents as a young girl. she ended up on her own at 14 wor as a housemaid. she was saved by the kindness of others. her first-grade teacher saw she had nothing to eat at lunch, and brought extra food to share the entire year. the lessons she passed on to me years later stuck with me. no one gets through life one. we have to look out for each other and lift each other up. and she made sure i learned the words from our methodist faith: do l the good you can for l the people you can in l the ways you can as long as ever you can. <applause> so i went to work for the children's defense fund, going door-to- door in new bedford, massachusetts... <applause> ...on behf of children with disabilities who were denied the chance to go to school. i remember meeting a young girl in a wheelchair on the sml back porch of her house. she told me how badly she wan to go to school. it just didn't seem possible in those days. and i couldn't stop thin of my mother and what she'd gone through as a child. it became clear to me that simply caring is not enough. to drive re progress, you have to change both hearts and laws. you need both understanding and action. <applause> so we gathered facts, we built a coition and our work helped convince congress to ensure access to education for l students with disabilities. it's a big idea, isn't it? every kid with a disability has the right to go to school. <applause> but how? how do you make an idea like that re? you do it step by step, year by year, somees even door by door. my heart just swelled when i saw anastasia somoza representing millions of young people on this stage. <applause> because we changed our law to make sure she got an education. so it's true. i sweat the details of policy, whether we're t about the exact level of lead in the drin water in flint, michigan, the number of ment heth facilities in iowa or the cost of your prescription drugs. <applause> because it's not just a detail if it's your kid, if it's your family. it's a big de. and it should be a big de to you president, too. <applause> after the four days of this convention, you've seen some of the people who have inspired me, people who let me into their lives and became a part of mine, people like  moore and lauren manning. they told their stories tuesday night. i first met  as a 7-year old. he was wearing a full-body brace that must have weighed 40 pounds because i leaned over to lift him up. children like  kept me going when our plan for univers heth care failed and kept me wor with leaders of both parties to help create the children's heth insurance program that covers 8 million kids in our country. <applause> lauren manning, who stood here with such grace and power, was gravely injured on 9/11. it was the thought of her and debbie st.  who you saw in the movie and  dolan and  sweeney and l the vics and survivors that kept me wor as hard as i could in the senate on behf of 9/11 families and our first responders who got sick from their e at ground zero. i was thin of lauren, debbie and l the others 10 years later in the white house situation room when president  made the courageous decision that finly brought oa bin laden to justice. <applause> and in this campaign, i've met many more people who motivate me to keep fighting for change. and with your help, i will carry l of your voices and stories with me to the white house. <applause> and you heard from s and independents who are supporting our campaign. well, i will be a president for s, s, independents, for the struggling, the striving, the successful, for l those who vote for me and for those who don't. for l amans together! <applause> tonight we've reached a milestone in our nation's march toward a more perfect union. the first e that a major party has nomina a woman for president! <applause> standing here as my mother's daughter and my daughter's mother, i'm so happy this day has come. i'm happy for gmothers and little girls and everyone in between. i'm happy for boys and men. because when any barrier fls in ama, it clears the way for everyone. after l, when there are no ceilings, the sky's the limit! <applause> so let's keep going. let's keep going until every one of the 161 million women and girls across ama has the opportunity she deserves to have!<applause>
<:> but even more important than the history we make tonight is the history we will write together in the years ahead. let's begin with what we're going to do to help wor people in our country get ahead and stay ahead. now, i don't think president  and vice president  get the credit they deserve for saving us from the worst economic crisis of our lifees. <applause> our economy is so much stronger than when they took office. nearly 15 million new private sector jobs, 20 million more amans with heth insurance, and an auto industry that just had its best year ever. <applause> now, that's re progress, but none of us can be satisfied with the status quo, not by a long shot. we're still facing deep-sea problems that developed long before the recession and have stayed with us through the recovery. i've gone around the country t to wor families and i've heard from many who feel like the economy sure isn't wor for them. some of you are frustra, even furious. and you know what? you're right. it's not yet wor the way it should. amans are willing to work and work hard, but right now an awful lot of people feel there is less and less respect for the work they do and less respect for them, period. s, we are the party of wor people. <applause> but we haven't done a good enough job showing we get what you're going through, and we're going to do something to help. so tonight i want to tell you how we will empower amans to live better lives. my primary mission as president will be to create more opportunity and more good jobs with rising wages right here in the uni states. <applause> from my first day in office to my last, especily in places that for too long have been left out and left behind, from our inner cities to our sml towns, from indian country to co country... <applause> ...from communities ravaged by addiction, to regions hollowed out by plant closures. and here's what i believe. i believe ama thrives when the middle class thrives. i believe our economy isn't wor the way it should because our democracy isn't wor the way it should. <applause> that's why we need to appoint supreme court justices who will get money out of politics and expand voting rights, not restrict them. <applause> and if necessary, we will pass a constitution amendment to overturn citizens uni! <applause> i believe aman corporations that have gotten so much from our country should be just as patriotic in return. many of them are, but too many aren't. it's wrong to take tax breaks with one hand and give out pink slips with the other. <applause> and i believe wl street can never, ever be lowed to wreck main street again. <applause> and i believe in science! <applause> i believe climate change is re and that we can save our planet while creating millions of good-paying, clean-energy jobs. <applause> i believe that when we have millions of hardwor immigrants contributing to our economy, it would be self-defeating and inne to try to kick them out. <applause> comprehensive immigration reform will grow our economy and keep families together. and it's the right thing to do. <applause> so whatever party you belong to or if you belong to no party at l, if you share these beliefs, this is your campaign. <applause> if you believe that companies should share profits, not pad executive bonuses, join us! <applause> if you believe the minimum wage should be a living wage and no one wor full e should have to raise their children in poverty, join us! <applause> if you believe that every man, woman and child in ama has the right to affordable heth care, join us! <applause> if you believe that we should say no to unfair trade des, that we should stand up to china, that we should support our steelworkers and autoworkers and home-grown manufacturers, then join us! <applause> if you believe we should expand soci security and protect a woman's right to make her own heth care decisions, then join us! <applause> and yes, yes, if you believe that your wor mother, wife, sister or daughter deserves equ pay, join us! <applause> that's how we're going to make sure this economy works for everyone, not just those at the top. now, you didn't hear any of this, did you, from   at his convention? he spoke for 70-odd minutes, and i do mean odd... <laughter> <applause> ...and he offered zero solutions. but we ready know he doesn't believe these things. no wonder he doesn't like t about his plans. you might have noticed i love t about mine. <applause> in my first 100 days, we will work with both parties to pass the biggest investment in new, good-paying jobs since world war ii. <applause> jobs in manufacturing, clean energy, technology and innovation, sml business and infrastructure. if we invest in infrastructure now, we'll not only create jobs today, but lay the foundation for the jobs of the future. and we will so transform the way we prepare our young people for those jobs.   and i will work together to make college tuition free for the middle class and debt free for l. <applause> we will so liberate millions of people who ready have student debt. <applause> it's just not right that   can ignore his debts and students and families can't refinance their debts. <applause> and something we don't say often enough, sure, college is cruci, but a four-year degree should not be the only path to a good job. <applause> we will help more people learn a skill or practice a trade and make a good living doing it. <applause> we will give sml businesses, like my dad's, a boost, make it easier to get credit. way too many dreams die in the par lots of banks. in ama, if you can dream it you should be able to build it. <applause> and we will help you bance family and work. and you know what? if fighting for affordable child care and paid family leave is playing the woman card, then de me in! <applause> now, here's the other thing. now, we're not only going to make l of these investments, we're going to pay for every single one of them. and here's how: wl street, corporations and the super rich are going to start paying their fair share of taxes.<applause>
<:> this is not because we resent success. but when more than 90 percent of the gains have gone to the top 1 percent, that's where the money is. and we are going to follow the money. <applause> and if companies take tax breaks and then ship jobs overseas, we'll make them pay us back and we'll put that money to work where it belongs, creating jobs here at home. <applause> now, i imagine that some of you are sitting at home thin, well, that l sounds pretty good, but how are you going to get it done? how are you going to break through the gridlock in washington? well, look at my record. i've worked across the aisle to pass laws and treaties and to launch new programs that help millions of people. and if you give me the chance, that's exactly what i'll do as president. <applause> but then i so imagine people are thin out there, but , he's a businessman, he must know something about the economy. <audience jeers> well, let's take a closer look, shl we? in atlantic city, 60 miles from here, you will find contractors and sml businesses who lost everything because   refused to pay his s. <audience jeers> now, remember what the president said last night: don't boo; vote! <applause> but think of this. people who did the work and needed the money, not because he couldn't pay them, but because he wouldn't pay them. he just stiffed them. and you know that ses pitch he's ma to be president, put your faith in him and you'll win big? that's the e ses pitch he made to l those sml businesses. then  wked away and left wor people holding the bag. he so tks a big game about putting ama first. well, please explain what part of "ama first" leads him to make  ties in china, not colorado,  suits in mexico, not michigan,  furniture in turkey, not ohio,  picture frames in india, not wisconsin?   says he wants to make ama great again. well, he could start by actuly ma things in ama again. <applause> now, the choice we face in this election is just as stark when it comes to our nation security.
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> you know, anyone -- anyone -- reading the news can see the threats and turbulence we face, from baghdad to kabul to nice and paris and brussels, from san bernardino to orlando. we're deing with determined enemies that must be defea. so it's no wonder that people are anxious and loo for reassurance, loo for steady leadership, wanting a leader who understands we are stronger when we work with our lies around the world and care for our veterans here at home. <applause> keeping our nation safe and honoring the people who do that work will be my highest priority. i'm proud that we've put a lid on iran's nuclear program without firing a single shot. <applause> now we have to enforce it. and we must keep supporting israel's security. <applause> i'm proud that we shaped a glob climate agreement. now we have to hold every country accountable to their commitments, including ourselves. and i'm proud to stand by our lies in nato against any threat they face, including from russia. <applause> i've laid out my strategy for defeating isis. we will strike their sanctuaries from the air and support loc forces ta them out on the ground. we will surge our intelligence so we detect and prevent attacks before they happen. we will disrupt their efforts online to reach and radicize young people in our country. <applause> it won't be easy or quick, but make no mistake we will prevail. now,  ,   says, and this is a quote, "i know more about isis than the geners do." no, , you don't. <laughter> <applause> he thinks he knows more than our military because he claimed our armed forces are a disaster. <audience jeers> well, i've had the privilege to work closely with our troops and our veterans for many years, including as a senator on the armed services comee, and i know how wrong he is. our military is a nation treasure. we entrust our commander in chief to make the hardest decisions our nation faces, decisions about war and peace, life and death. a president should respect the men and women who risk their lives to serve our country... <applause> ...including captain khan and the sons of   and  , both marines. so just ask yourself, do you rely think   has the temperament to be commander in chief?   can't even handle the rough and tumble of a presidenti campaign. he loses his cool at the slightest provocation, when he's gotten a tough question from a reporter, when he's chlenged in a debate, when he sees a protester at a rly. imagine, if you dare, imagine, imagine him in the ov office facing a re crisis. a man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons! <applause> i can't put it any better than jackie kennedy did after the cuban missile crisis. she said that what worried president kennedy during that very dangerous e was that a war might be star not by big men with self-control and restraint, but by little men, the ones moved by fear and pride. <applause> ama's strength doesn't come from lashing out. it relies on smarts, judgment, cool resolve and the precise and strategic application of power. and that's the kind of commander in chief i pledge to be. <applause> and if we're serious about keeping our country safe, we so can't afford to have a president who's in the pocket of the gun lobby. <applause> i'm not here to repe the second amendment. i'm not here to take away your guns. i just don't want you to be shot by someone who shouldn't have a gun in the first place. <applause> we will work tirelessly with responsible gun owners to pass common sense reforms and keep guns out of the hands of crimins, terrorists and l others who would do us harm. you know, for decades people have said this issue was too hard to solve and the politics too hot to touch. but i ask you, how can we just stand by and do nothing? you heard, you saw family members of people killed by gun violence, on this stage. you heard, you saw family members of police officers killed in the line of duty because they were outgunned by crimins. i refuse to believe we can't find common ground here. we have to he the divides in our country, not just on guns, but on race, immigration and more. <applause> and that starts with listening, listening to each other, trying as best we can to wk in each other's shoes. so let's put ourselves in the shoes of young black and latino men and women who face the effects of systemic racism and are made to feel like their lives are disposable! <applause> let's put ourselves in the shoes of police officers kissing their kids and spouses good-bye every day, heading off to do a dangerous and necessary job. we will reform our crimin justice system from end to end and rebuild trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve. <applause> and we will defend l our rights, civil rights, n rights and voting rights, women's rights and workers' rights, lgbt rights and the rights of people with disabilities. <applause> and we will stand up against mean and divisive rhetoric wherever it comes from. you know, for the past year many people made the mistake of laughing off  's comments, excusing him as an entertainer just putting on a show. they thought he couldn't possibly mean l the horrible things he says. like when he cled women pigs, or said that an aman judge couldn't be fair because of his mexican heritage, or when he mocks and mimics a reporter with a disability or insults prisoners of war, like  mccain, a hero and a patriot who deserves our respect. <applause> now, at first, at first, i admit, i couldn't he meant it either. it was just too hard to fathom that someone who wants to lead our nation could say those things, could be like that. but here's the sad truth: there is no other  , this is it. and in the end, it comes down to what   doesn't get: ama is great because ama is good! <applause> so enough with the bigotry and the bombast.  's not offering re change, he's offering empty promises. and what are we offering? a bold agenda to improve the lives of people across our country to keep you safe, to get you good jobs, to get your kids the opportunities they deserve. <applause> the choice is clear, my friends. every generation of amans has come together to make our country freer, fairer and stronger. none of us ever have or can do it one. i know that at a e when so much seems to be pulling us apart, it can be hard to imagine how we'll ever pull together. but i'm here to tell you tonight progress is possible. i know because i've seen it in the lives of people across ama who get knocked down and get right back up. <applause> and i know it from my own life. more than a few es i've had to pick myself up and get back in the game. <applause> like so much else in my life, i got this from my mother, too. she never let me back down from any chlenge. when i tried to hide from a neighborhood bully, she literly blocked the door, go back out there, she said. and she was right. you have to stand up to bullies. you have to keep wor to make things better, even when the odds are long and the opposition is fierce. we lost our mother a few years ago, but i miss her every day. and i still hear her voice urging me to keep wor, keep fighting for right no matter what. that's what we need to do together as a nation. <applause> and though we may not live to see the glory, as the song from the music "hamilton" goes, let us gladly join the fight, let our legacy be about planting seeds in a garden you never get to see. that's why we're here, not just in this hl, but on this earth. the founders showed us that and so have many others since. they were drawn together by love of country and the selfless passion to build something better for l who follow. that is the story of ama. and we begin a new chapter tonight. yes, the world is watching what we do. yes, ama's destiny is ours to choose. so let's be stronger together, my fellow amans! <applause> let's look to the future with courage and confidence. let's build a better tomorrow for our beloved children and our beloved country. and when we do, ama will be greater than ever! thank you, and may god bless you and the uni states of ama!<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event, dade city, florida">
<date:"2016-11-01">
<:> hello dade city. <applause> wow. <applause> i am so exci about being here, thank you l for this rely warm, wonderful welcome. <applause> and i -- i think on behf of l of us, i wanna thank isha machado for that introduction and for sharing... <applause> sharing her story with us. isha will be voting for the very first e in this election. <applause> and i am very grateful for her support. i'm so deligh that we're joined today by your great senator  nelson and his wife grace. <applause> i so wanna thank representative amanda hickman from the florida state house,  cox <ph>, chairman of the greater pasco <ph>, chamber of commerce  ledbetter <ph>, who is the pasco <ph> county  executive comee chair and his wife beverly. <applause> and thanks to retired colonel wilson elkton for his pledge of legiance and thanks to l the elec officis, here. <applause> and i especily wanna thank l of you for not just joining us, but helping us to get out the vote in this last week. <applause> it's most hard to believe, isn't it? there are only seven days left in this election. <applause> so are you ready to vote? <applause> are you ready to volunteer these last seven days? <applause> i , too, that you are ready to elect pat murphy to the uni states senate. <applause> pat, whose been in congress, will be an independent voice for florida families, and i am so exci to think about what he could do, because unlike his opponent, he's never been afraid to stand up to  . <applause> now, somebody asked me the other day "why do you keep coming back to florida?" just look around folks. i mean... <applause> it is - it's a beautiful place and i have lots of friends, but it's so rely important in this election. florida can decide who our next president is, which will affect the nation and the world. <applause> and i want to make sure that every voter in florida spends these next seven days, thin about what's at stake in this election. because honestly, i believe this may be the most important election of our lifees. <applause> one week from today, we will be choosing or next president and commander-in-chief of the uni states. <applause> i don't - i don't think the choice could be any clearer. you know, i have spent my career fighting for children and families. i have served in the uni states senate, served on the senate armed services comee; i was in the situation room when we bought oa bin laden to justice. <applause> i represen you as your secretary of state, going to 112 countries, negotiating with friend and foe ike. i am ready to serve, if you give me the great honor of being your president. <applause>
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> now, i do have to say that i think that stands in contrast to my opponent. and you know, maybe for you, if you think about l of the issues that separate   from me, it could be his dangerous statements about nuclear weapons. when a journist told   that people were worried about how causly he tks about nuclear weapons, he said "well then why are we ma them?"
<:> and i have to tell you, yesterday i was in ohio and i was introduced by a gentleman who was one our officers in charge of watching nuclear weapons if the order ever came from our president. and what he told the crowd, it was a big crowd at kent state university; i think every voter should hear. basicly, his name was bruce blair, he said that, having had the responsibility of sitting in a bunker, being responsible for the codes and the keys to our nuclear weapons, he knows that when a president makes the order to launch a nuclear attack, there is no appe, there is no veto. and that is why he has joined with dozens of former air force officers to send a letter to say "we need a president with the temperament, the steadiness, the cmness to be in charge of nuclear weapons. and therefore they cannot support   because he does not have the temperament to be our commander in chief and handle those responsibilities. <applause> so, when you think about voting - early voting this week, voting next tuesday - responsibility for our nuclear weapons is on the blot. so is immigration. do we want to round up millions of people who are here wor... <booing> ...raising their families as he has sugges he will do? i don't think so. i think what we want is to bring them out of the shadows so that they can't be exploi by employers... <applause> ...by employers like   who refuse to hire amans and hired undocumen workers so he could pay them less. i don't think that's right. <applause> now, maybe for some of you, what   said about prisoners of war will be enough reason to vote against him. somebody who'll question the patriotism and the service of  mccain because he was a prisoner of war. we need a commander in chief who respects the service and sacrifice of the men and women who wear our uniform. <applause> or maybe for some of you, it's what he said about a judge born in indiana who just happened to be assigned the case brought by people who were defrauded by the phony  university. and so  said, "well, we can't trust him because his parents were born in mexico." <booing> now,  , the  speaker of the house cled... <booing> well, but wait a minute. he cled what  said about that distinguished feder judge the definition of a racist comment. <applause> and then  went on to attack a gold start family whose son, capitan kahn, died defending our country simply because that family was muslim. <booing> and then let's not forget,  spent years - years insisting that president  was not born in the uni states, even after the birth certificate was produced. <booing> honestly, if this were something new, i - i think we'd l be as ourselves, "well, what - what does he have against president ? or what does he have against me?" but this is not new. i know i'm reaching out to s and independents, as well as s because i want to be the president for l amans. <applause> and here's what i want you tell - i want you to tell your  friends in 1987   took out a $100,000 ad in the new york es to criticize president reagan. he said, "our leaders are the laughing stock of the world." so, this is a man who thinks that he is better than president reagan, better than president , literly better than anybody i guess. and when you think about it, what he said at the convention, i one can fix it runs counter to who we are as amans. we work together. so there are many reasons why i think it is fair to conclude that   is unquified and unfit to be president. but today, i want to just spend a few minutes focusing in particular about what he has said and what he has done to women and girls because - <applause> you know, any of you see the debates?
<audience: yes!>
<:> you know, i stood next to  for four and hf hours for those three debates proving conclusively i have the stamina to be president of the uni states. and during those debates, you know,  ways used to say: what have you been doing for 30 years? and i ways found that kind of odd because he could google it and find out. and so, you know, i've been a lawyer, i've been a first lady, and i've been a senator. and i've been secretary of state. <applause> i've been a wife and a mother and a gmother and a friend and a churchgoer. and for my entire life, i've been a woman. and when i think about what we now know about   and what he's been doing for 30 years, he sure has spent a lot of e demeaning, degrading, insulting, and assaulting women. and i got to tell you, some of what we've learned - some of this stuff is very upsetting.
<audience member: yes.>
<:> i would frankly rather be here t about nearly anything else. like how we're going to create more good jobs and get the economy wor for everybody not just those at the top. how we're going to make college affordable for every single family. <applause> because i have a plan that if your family makes less than $125,000 you will not pay tuition to go to a state college or university. <applause> and if you're above that, it will be debt free, and we help you pay back the debt you ready have so you can get out from under it. <applause> but i can't just tk about l the good things we want to do because people are ma up their minds. this is a consequenti choice. so, we've got to tk about something that frankly is painful.
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> because it matters. we can't just wish it away, and you know, a lot of his supporters don't like to hear this. i don't blame them. if i was supporting him, i wouldn't want to hear it either, to be honest. but i got to tell you, i learned way back in elementary school, and i learned it in sunday school, you know, it's not ok to insult people. it's not ok.
<audience member: that's right.>
<:> and look at what he does; he cls women ugly, disgusting, nasty l the e. <booing> he cls women pigs, rates bodies on a sce from one to ten. we just heard from icia, she was miss universe when   owned the pageant. well, he said she put on some weight. and it made him angry, so he cled her miss piggy, cled her miss housekeeping because she's a beautiful latina. <booing> he brought a bunch of reporters to a gym to watch him order her around to exercise. <booing> now, you know, he so said, "this is somebody who likes to eat." well, i have to say, who doesn't like to eat? <applause> i mean, rely. can we just stop for a minute and reflect on the absurdity of   finding fault with miss universe? <applause> but you've got to ask, why does he do these things? who acts like this? and i'll tell you who, a bully. that's who. <applause> and thankfully icia refuses to let such a sml person get her down. she knows that  ... <applause>   doesn't get to decide her vue in her eyes and in the eyes of her family and her friends. <applause> but what about our girls?
<audience: no (ph)!>
<:> what about girls watching l this? what happens to their confidence, their sense of self worth? if you've got a daughter, a gdaughter, a sister, a mother, a wife, a good friend, someone like this becoming president who insults more than hf the population of the uni states of ama? and what about our boys?
<audience: no (ph)!>
<:> this is not someone we - we want them loo up to.
<audience: no (ph) we (ph) don't!>
<:> you know, not so long ago i was the mother of a teenage girl. and you know, every day i tried to make sure she knew that she was smart and she was capable. and i'm doing the e thing with my gdaughter and my gson. <applause>
<audience: yes! yes!>
<:> because let's be honest here, the world has a way of telling our girls exactly the opposite. they don't look right, they're not thin enough, they don't act right. no one will like then unless they change their clothes or straighten their hair or stop being bossy or whatever the criticism might be, right? and i remember when  was a teenager i would wait on the second floor of the white house, in the long hl that's there, for her to come home from school. and somees we only had a few minutes together. but before she'd run off to tk to her friends or do whatever she was planning to, i would figure out kind of how were the - how was the day. you know, we'd tk about what was on her mind. and that e together was rely vuable to me as a parent.
<audience: that's right.>
<:> because we parents - and i know there are a lot of parents here today. we work hard to give our kids a sense of confidence. to send them out into the world believing in their own vue.
<audience: that's right.>
<:> and it rely is important that we don't let anybody take that away from them.
<audience: yes (ph).>
<:> and we want them to be strong. we don't want them to feel bad about themselves.
<audience: right (ph).>
<:> and we've got to work hard to make sure our boys, just like our girls, have that e sense of positive energy. not negative, not tearing people down... <applause> ... lifting people up. and respecting women. in fact, l of us should respect each other in our country. and... <applause> so when <ph> i look at my gdaughter and my gson, i am on the e mission. i want them to know they're loved, they're cared for, they're respec. i want them to develop a good work ethic. i believe in hard work. and i want them to go out and prove themselves in the world. but that's what i want for every child. 
<audience: right (ph).>
<:> i have spent my life doing everything i could to help kids and families. it will be the mission of my presidency, i will get up everyday in the white house trying to figure out how can we knock down the barriers, overcome the chlenges, so that people living here in pasco (ph) county can get ahead and stay ahead. (applause) so i know there's work to be done, we can't do it with just words one. we've gotta do more to stop treatment about women being somehow objectified and oh my gosh, when we heard that tape and we heard what he does to women i'm not gonna repeat it. but you know what   was bragging about, grabbing women, mistreating women. and i have to tell you since that tape came out, 12 women have come forward to say what he said on that tape is what he did to me. and then, we heard his response. what he does at his rlies is to go after those women l over again, insulting him. he said he -- he couldn't possibly have said those things because the women weren't attractive enough to assault.
<audience boos>
<:> look at her, he said about one woman, i don't think so. about another, he said she wouldn't be my first choice. he's so on tape bragging with the radio personity howard stern about how he used to go backstage at his beauty pageants and he would barge in on women while they were getting dressed. <audience boos>
<:> he said he did that -- he said he did that to inspect them, that was his word. and he said, i sort of got away with things like that and sure enough, contestants have come forward to say yes, that's exactly what he did to us. now, as bad as that is, he didn't just do it at the miss usa pageant or the miss universe pageant. he's so been accused of doing this at the miss teen usa pageant. <audience boos>
<:> contestants say that   came in to look at them when they were changing. some of them were just 15 years old. <audience boos>
<:> we cannot hide from this. we've got to be willing to face it, this man wants to be president of the uni states of ama and... <audience boos>
<:> ...our wonderful first lady   spoke for many of us... <applause> when she said  's words had shaken her to her core. for a lot of women, who've gone through something like this in your lives, that's brought back painful memories. and for men who would never, ever tk or act like , it's been shoc to see this. he tried to explain it away as locker room tk. well, i'll tell you what, a lot of profession athletes stood up and said, not in our locker rooms. that does not happen. <applause> but i guess the bottom line is, he things belittling women makes him a bigger man. and i don't think there's a women anywhere who doesn't know what that feels like. he doesn't see us as full n beings, with our own dreams, our own purposes, our own capabilities. and he has shown that clearly throughout this campaign. well, he is very wrong. he is wrong about both the women and the men of this country. he has shown us who he is. let us, on tuesday, show him who we are. <applause> we can stand up for what we believe, what we want for our children and our gchildren what we know is right. and you can go down the list of everything he has said. he doesn't believe in equ pay, he thinks pregnancy is an inconvenience, he won't the minimum wage, and he said if he comes home and dinner is not on the table he gets angry. <booing> instead of supporting women who're out there supporting their families, he wants to make it even harder. well, i have a message for him. we're gonna fight for affordable child care. <applause> we are gonna fight for equ pay for l people. <applause> we're gonna fight for paid family leave. we're gonna fight to make sure everybody gets rising wages in ama. and that's important because so many people are still struggling, still wor hard, raising a family, having a hard e getting l of their s paid. and that's especily true for minimum wage workers who two thirds of whom are women. so, we've got work to do my friends. i'm exci because i know we can do this. and i will stand up and i will fight for you, i will work for you, i will give my heart to this mission of ma our country l it should be because instead of  's dangerous and divisive vision, mine is positive, opistic, ful, and unifying. <applause> but i can't do any of this without your help. early voting has ready begun. most 26 million amans have ready vo. and that includes four million right here in florida. <applause> amans are voting for the kind of better future we can make together and voting on l the issues that they care about. it may be my name and 's name on the blot, but everything you care about - our security, our economy, bringing our country together, the environment... <applause> ...clean water and clear air. here in dade city you can vote everyday from now until november 5th from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. in fact, right now, the east pasco government center - just a few minutes' drive away - you can go there right after this rly and vote because we need everybody to stand up in this election. if you've got a mail-in blot at home, send it in when you get home today. don't wait to send it back. tk to your friends and family, and your neighbors, your coworkers. and you know  's strategy's pretty simple. he says he wants to suppress young people from voting, women from voting, people of color from voting. i mean that's a lot of people. by showing up with the biggest turnout ever, we will send him and everybody a message that that's not who we are. <applause> now, i know here in this - this county and this larger region, you probably know some people who are going to vote for , and here's what i want to ask you. i want you to tk with them, ask them what they care about, ask them what kind of future they want for our country. because  's economic plan is slashing taxes on the wethy and big corporations. i have said i want the wethy to pay their fair share, and i will not raise taxes anybody ma less than $250,000 a year. <applause> so there could not be, no matter what you cared about, a bigger difference between me and  . and i  that you will come out and volunteer for these last seven days. we are signing people up for volunteer shifts, ma cls, knoc on doors. it rely matters, turnout matters. please go to .com to see how you can get involved. and here's what -- here's what i want to leave you with, you know, i feel like so many of you -- that our country is great, but we can make it greater. and the main reason ama is great, is because aman is good. we are a big hear, generous people; not a sml kinded people. we know that if everybody works together, we will get further together, than if we separate people, we push them down, we engage in l the negativity we've heard too much about in this campaign. but somees, the fate of even the greatest nations lies in the bance. and, for ama, this is one of these make or break elections, it rely is in your hands. and i  you will think about how you will feel the day after the election on november the 9th. are we going forward together, or are we going to be pulled backwards by someone who wants to bully us? <applause> and i , i  you will think about how together, we can make a difference. i want to be your partner, as well as your president. i want us to create the best possible future for our children and out gchildren. that is what i will work my heart out to do, and i  you will help me to make a better, fairer, stronger ama, where we prove once and for l that love s hate. thank you l.<title="former secretary of state  rodham ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at  c. smith university">
<date:"2016-09-08">
<:> whoa, it is so great to be here. thank you l so much. and i was backstage listening to jordan pope's story, and it was just so powerful and moving. and her ability to stand up here, tk about her person family experienced, coming out of  staying strong, moving forward, being a student here at  c. smith university. i am so exci! <applause> i want to thank her, and i want to thank, dr. carter, thank you for welcoming us here. you have welcomed two s in the last year. there is something about this place that has attrac both my husband and myself. i apologize for being late. we had a disabled airplane on the runway that had to get moved. it took a lot longer than expec. but i've been loo forward to joining l of you here in charlotte. i want to recognized and thank your mayor, mayor jennifer roberts. there you are. thank you, mayor roberts. i want to thank trevor fuller, chair of the mecklenburg county commission. i want to acknowledge josh , candidate for attorney gener and to l of you gathered here today. it is 61 days until the election. <applause> and i think it's so appropriate to be here in the great state of north carolina at a rely well renowned h, you know, what i'm saying, hbcu, historicly black college and university... <applause> ... that like so many others has played such an important role in our country's history, producing some of ama's finest leaders. and i am very proud i was just doing a phone cl on the way here with a lot of my young organizers on college campuses across our country and i got a question from a young woman at another historicly black college and university, fayetteville. <applause> and i told her that i have a plan to help l of you afford to go to college. <applause> i have a plan to help l of you with student debt to pay it down and pay it off. <applause> and i have a speci plan of a $25 ion fund, specificly, aimed at supporting hbcus... <applause> ... because we need a lot of opportunities for young people from everywhere. it shouldn't matter what you look like, where you're from or who you love. you deserve to be in college if that is your choice. <applause> so right now we're up and running. we're organizing across ama, and as jordan said, this election has such high stakes, but the highest stakes are for young people, young people across ama. this election is going to determine in so many ways what kind of futures you will have. i don't say that lightly. everybody ways says every election is important. i happen to believe that. i think it's one of the great gifts of our democracy that we have the opportunity to choose our leaders. and people, brave people, going back for so many years have fought to preserve that right. and that right is under attack right now. and it is under attack in north carolina of l places. a state that often set the standard for moving everybody into the future and i admired that so much. emphasis on education from literly preschool through college, emphasis on research, emphasis on job creation and innovation. and now, north carolina, under the current governor and legislature, has been trying to restrict people's right to vote. well, you know it. north carolina voters, though, won an important victory when a feder court just struck down this state's voter i.d. law. <applause> and the feder court brought back more days of what's cled one-stop early voting. and here's what the court said. this is not me t. this is what the feder court said. the court said the north carolina law was designed to target african-amans with most surgic precision. now, that's not just happening in north carolina. unfortunately, it's happening across ama. and courts have been overturning restrictions that make it harder, not just for african-amans, but low-income people, latinos, young people. one of the provisions in the north carolina law was to make it rely hard to vote where you go to school. so this has been a concer effort to undermine the right to vote, even to make it hard for people with disabilities to cast blots. well, what's the best way to repudiate that kind of underhanded, mean-spiri effort to deprive people of their votes? get out and vote and make it clear we're not putting up with that. <applause> these laws are a blast from the jim crow past and they have no place in 21st century ama. <applause> we should be doing everything we can to make it easier to vote, not harder. that's why, if i'm elec president, i will work to expand early voting. we will enact univers voter registration so every young person in every state is automaticly registered to vote when you turn 18. <applause> and we will repair the damage done to the voting rights act and take on discrimination in l forms. now, hb two is another example of trying to discriminate against people that doesn't have any place in our modern society. you've seen this firsthand in north carolina. discrimination is not only wrong, it's bad for business. the nba, you know, canceled the game. payp canceled bringing i think 400 jobs. others are not coming to this beautiful state, because they don't want to be associa with the discriminatory bigo policies of your governor and legislature. now, one thing you can do about that is change your governor in november. <applause> and while you're at it, change one of your senators. <applause> we're going to need re-enforcements up in washington. we've got a big agenda. and you know, people say to me, well, what is it you're going to try to get done? well, i'll show you, re easy. we just published a book. right?   and i put this book out. it's cled "stronger together." it's not very long, not a hard read. but we have this old-fashioned idea that if we're as you to support us as president, we're ought to tell you what we're going to do. <applause> not just bluster, not just empty words, not just demagogic rhetoric. re plans that will improve your lives, make our country safer and better. <applause> so, you can pick this up. we're going to build an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. sounds like a good idea. <applause> we're going to make the biggest investment in good paying jobs since world war ii. infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, clean energy jobs. we're going to make the economy fairer, raise the nation minimum wage, get people to work full e out of poverty. and we are finly going to guarantee equ pay for women's work. it is long overdue. <applause> did any of you see the  convention? well, i don't know, you might have missed one of my favorite sets of speakers. we had these two young people from kansas, 17 years old, young man, young woman. i'd read about this and i said, let's contact these young people and find out their story. here's their story. seventeen, had the e summer job, knew each other, wor in a pizza restaurant. and they were pretty exci. i remember when i got my first re job. not babysitting but, you know, actuly showing up at a job and having to do it. and so, one day after they finished work, they were t and the young woman said, you know, i think ma $8.00 an hour, i should be able to at least save something for college. and the young man, a friend of hers said, well, i'm ma $8.15 an hour. and she said, well, why are you ma 15 cents more an hour than i am? neither of us had any experience to do this job. we're the e age. he said, well, i don't know, that doesn't sound right. maybe there was a mistake. so, they go to the manager. they tell the manager. and the manager fired them both. and you know what? that's leg. if you find out you're not being paid the e for doing the e job, you can be fired. so, this is not some made-up problem. and this would raise family incomes. and if you have a mother, a wife, a daughter or a sister who's wor, it's your issue. so, we're going to get that done as well. and like i said, we're going to make college affordable for everybody. pay down debt. but we're going to do something else. i think it was a mistake when we got rid of l vocation education in high school. <applause> it needed to be improved, don't get me wrong. it wasn't training people for the jobs that were out in the marketplace anymore, but we got rid of l of it. we need technic education in high school. we need more apprenticeship programs where young people can learn and earn at the e e. and we're going to go back to emphasizing that in high school, community colleges, apprenticeship programs, creative ideas like coding camps. we're going to have 1.4 million jobs in 2020 for people who have computer science skills. and we're going to only -- if we continue on our present path, only have 400,000 amans prepared to do those jobs. i want those jobs to be aman jobs, so we're going to help train people of l ages to be able to do those jobs. we are so going to defend quity affordable heth care for everybody, but we're going to get the cost down. we're going to get the cost of prescription drugs down for sure. <applause> and we're going to emphasize two things that we have flen short on, ment heth and addiction services. <applause> people i've met here in north carolina and across the ama tk to me about that l the e. so, again, we've got our ideas in here. we want you to engage with us, give us your ideas. this needs to be an ongoing conversation. we want you to hold us accountable, when we're in that white house trying to do l of this. but we so have to keep ama safe and we have to lead the world with steadiness and strength. now, one of the biggest differences in this campaign is   basicly says i one can fix it, whatever it is. think of who that leaves out. that leaves out our troops on the front line. it leaves out our police and fire responders to emergencies. it leaves out our teachers, our educators who are wor to help young people. it leaves out everybody. i one can fix it? i was raised to believe that we're in this together, and together we can fix it. and that is exactly what we're going to do. <applause> that's why   and i are running a campaign of issues not insults. <applause>   has a different approach. he wants to build an economy that works even better for himself, starting with a $4 ion tax cut for his own family. he's built a career on stiffing workers, mom and pop contractors, sml businesses that did jobs for him, and then he refused to pay them. i take this very personly. my father was a sml businessman. that's how he provided a good middle class living for us. he prin drapery fabrics. he would get the fabric and roll it out on these big long tables. you take a silk screen, and you'd put it down. you'd dump the paint in. you'd take the squeegee. you'd go across. you'd lift it up. you'd down the end of one table. start at the end of the other table. you'd do it until the job was done. somees i would be there helping him. and then, he would load the fabric into his car and he would deliver it. i tell you what, i am a so grateful he never had a contract with  's businesses. <applause> in fact, i just ran across the story in las vegas, when i was there a few weeks ago, of a sml drapery business who got what they thought was the greatest contract ever for 's new hotel in las vegas. they delivered the goods, and they were refused payment for no reason other than it's a game to him. everything is a game. it's like he's living in his own celebrity reity t.v. program. you know what, ? this is re reity. this is re people. this is re decisions that have to be made for our country. <applause> he actuly stood on a debate stage and said wages are too high in ama. now, he's got some new advisers. he's had a bunch of advisers. he's got new advisers, and they're l trying to make him look more presidenti, sound more serious. it's not wor too well. but remember what maya angelou who spent the last years of her life right here in this state at wake forest. reminded l of us -- i think about it often. i was so privileged to know her. when someone shows you who they are, believe them the first e. <applause> you know, stronger together so means wor together with our true lies and partners around the world. and last night, i offered some thoughts about isis, iran, how we're going to reform the v.a. system to take better care of our vets. and just since last night when i appeared on that program back-to-back with , just in the last 24 hours, more retired geners and admirs have signed up to support my campaign. <applause> people who have sacrificed and spent their lives protecting our country, vuing what makes us exception and ready great. see   and know he should not be anywhere near the white house. he is temperamently unfit to be president and commander in chief. <applause> now, tomorrow, i will hold -- i will hold a meeting of bipartisan. bipartisan which is what i want to get us back to where s and s work together to make the changes, to protect our country. i'm going to be meeting with a bipartisan group of leaders and experts to focus more on these cruci chlenges. but it's hard to forget what  did last night. it was a test, and he failed it. he trash tked about amas geners, saying that they've been, quote, "reduced to rubble." he sugges he would fire them l and hand pick his own geners, since, you know, he knows so much about what it takes to be a gener. he attacked dozens of former flag officers. at the e e -- and here's what i want you to rely hear because even i was shocked by this. and i didn't know much could shock me, coming out of his mouth anymore. he praised russia's strong man,  , even ta the astonishing step of suggesting he prefers the russian president to our aman president. that is not just unpatriotic, it's not just insulting to the office and the man who holds the office, it is scary. it is dangerous! <applause> it actuly suggests he will let  do what  wants and even make excuses for him. i said this morning, i -- i was trying to think about what other presidents would be imagining hearing that coming out of the nominee for the  party. what would rond reagan say about a  nominee who attacks ama's geners and heaps praise on russia's president? we've never seen anything like this. and one thing you didn't hear from him was any plan to take on isis, one of the biggest threats facing our country. he says his plan is still a secret. well, the truth is, he doesn't have a plan. <applause> i served -- i served on the senate armed services comee. i served as secretary of state, as you know. i respect the men and women who put their lives on the line for the country that i love and that i believe in. <applause> so whether you're passionate about more good jobs, better education, hethcare, whether you're passionate about protecting our country and the brave men and women who serve us, you have to reize, as so many s are, that this is a e to put country over party. i would be saying that even if i were not running against him. we have never been threatened as much by a single candidate running for president as we have been in this election. as your commander-in- chief, i will not trash our country's most cherished vues. i will defend them. <applause> and that is especily on my mind because this weekend is the 15th anniversary of 9/11. i was a senator serving. and i will never forget the horror of that day or the bravery of our first responders, the vics, the survivors, people i had the honor to work with and represent. it's what kept me rely so passionately involved on behf of the people that i served l during those years. and that is what i was thin of 10 years later in the white house situation room. i was part of the sml group advising president  whether or not the intelligence we had was good enough to take a chance, to go deep into pakistan, to try to finly bring oa bin laden to justice. it was not an easy choice by any means. these never are. that's why who sits at the head of that table in the situation room has to be able to sort out fact from opinion, has to be able to ask the hard questions, pursue even the most difficult leads. we went through that hour after hour after hour. and then the president went around the table as each of us what we advised. and we were split because it was not some kind of easy layup. i believed it was strong enough that we needed to take action and i suppor ta action that would determine whether or not we were successful. that meant sending in speci forces. now, you know what happened. i was in that situation room watching that day. the most stressful 30 minutes of my life probably. because you remember one of the helicopters nicked -- clicked on -- hit its tail on the wl going into the courtyard and became disabled. that meant -- thank goodness there were good contingency plans, but you had to get another helicopter in to take out the ses who would no longer be able to fly out on that one. but here's what i want to tell you because it is a story that, to me, illustrate our vues in such a clear, unambiguous way. you've heard   say he would order our troops to torture. you've heard him say he would order our troops to kill family members of terrorists. you would know that he was advocating illeg actions against our own laws, as well as the laws of war. thank goodness there's a code of honor in our military stronger than the bluster and the bullying of   because here is what happened on that night. <applause> every single second coun. that helicopter had to be blown up, but before it was -- and, remember, the ses had gone in. they had taken out the two kuwaitis, the bodyguards. they had taken out bin laden's son, who was there. they took out bin laden. they had to get his body out. they had to get themselves out. but here's what they did first. they rounded up l the women and children, members of terrorists' families. they took them outside as far from the helicopter as they could get them in order that they would not be hurt. that,  , is what aman honor looks like and that is what we're going to stand up and defend in the face of your outrageous, disgraceful attacks on the men and women of our armed forces! <applause> we're going to unify this country, my friends. we are going to bring us back together. we are going to get things done. big things. that's who we are as amans. i can't do any of this unless you join me in this campaign. you can start by going to .com or texting "join," j-o-i-n, to 47246. you can knock on doors. you can make phone cls. register your friends to vote. attend a house party in your neighborhood. we're going to keep as for your help over these next two months. there is so much at stake in north carolina and in ama. no one can sit on the sidelines. the stakes are high for everyone. join the campaign. let's build a future where we're stronger together! thank you! <title="  holds a campaign rly in des moines, iowa (sd)">
<date:"2016-08-10">
<:> i am so happy to be back here and to have this chance to tk with l of you and to be introduced by two of the people that i admire most, people who have rely made a difference in the lives of so many. i know everybody in iowa understand that tom and ruth harkin are as good as you can get. there isn't anybody better... <applause> and i loved serving with tom. i had to confess that i miss the idea that he'll be in the senate. but you got to hear from patty judge, and she would be a great senator for iowa. <applause> i want to thank l the elec officis and party officis who are here. i've been in  high school before and i'm glad to be back. <applause> how many of you saw the  convention? <applause> i'll tell you, i had just the greatest sense of joy and pride as s took that stage, and not just elec officis and people running for office, but so many amans who tked about their lives and what they had gone through and what they had accomplished. it was positive. it was opistic. it presen a stark contrast to what we had seen the week before at the  convention. <applause> and that's why, in this campaign, i'm crossing the country to tk about what we can do to improve the lives of the vast majority of amans, to create more opportunities for more people, to live up to their own potenti and to pursue the aman dream. and i can't think of a better place to tk about that than right here in iowa, because if you build it, they will come. <applause> after the convention, my running mate and i,  , got on a bus, we went through pennsylvania and ohio, stopping at factories and businesses, t to groups, listening -- doing a lot of listening -- about what we need to do together. and that's why i've rolled out specific plans about how to create more jobs, to get incomes rising. in the first 100 days of my administration, we will make the biggest investment in new jobs, good paying jobs, since world war ii. <applause>
<:> now, how are we going to do that? well, we're going to invest in infrastructure -- our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports. <applause> these are good jobs and a lot of them are good union jobs with good pay and good efits for families. <applause> you see, i have this old-fashioned idea that the middle class of ama is what makes ama's economy work. and what we've been seeing in recent years is a deliberate effort to undermine the middle class. some of it because of what's cled tle-down economics -- cut taxes for the wethy, get out of the way of corporations, and that didn't work out so well, did it? <applause> some of it is because the incredible efforts to undermine the right to organize and bargain collectively. the aman labor movement helped to create the aman middle class. <applause> so in addition to infrastructure that you can see, we're going to do water systems. we're going to do sewer systems. we are so going to build a modern electric grid to take the clean renewable energy that is produced in places like iowa and make sure it can be distribu where it can be used. <applause> you know, i -- i am someone who believes that if we do infrastructure and we do clean renewable energy jobs, we're going to be on the way to a 21st century economy that will work for everybody, not just those at the top. and how do i know this? well, because in the past we've done infrastructure, haven't we? in fact, we are living off the infrastructure built by our parents and our gparents, and in some cases our great-gparents. a lot of it is overdue -- overdue for maintenance, overdue for upgrades. so this will be good for the economy as well as for individu workers and businesses. and how do i know about clean renewable energy? partly because i spent a lot of e in iowa last year. <applause> anybody who says to me, well, you know, we can't rely transition to clean renewable energy, i ask them: have you been to iowa lately? <applause> you ready get a third of your electricity from wind. and there's going to be a lot of people who will be helped by the kind of work we're going to do to make sure that clean renewable energy is available around the country. and people who understand that know we can be the clean energy superpower of the 21st century. <applause> and some people get a little carried away. have you noticed that? <applause> well, i get carried away thin about l the jobs we're going to create. <applause> and l the families that are going to have a better chance for the future.
<:> i so get carried away by thin about advanced manufacturing, because what happened in iowa was not just putting up the turbines. you l figured out that you could actuly put them together in iowa and employ people who are doing that work, and then train people in apprenticeship programs at community colleges to make sure you could maintain those turbines. <applause> so the last e i've checked there were about 10,000 iowans wor in clean renewable energy. <applause> the other thing we're going to do is help sml businesses. i just came from visiting a great t-shirt company, raygun, right? you've been there. raygun. <applause> met a young man from iowa who star that company, employs about 50 people right here in des moines, has stores l across iowa, i see another sml businessman that i have gotten to know whose got his own blet bowl bowling ley, thank you so much. <applause> but here's what we've got to do. we've got to make sure that sml businesses, particularly those star by young people, get the credit they need and if they've got student debt, i want to put a three moratorium on their student debt payments so they can start their business and see whether they can be successful. <applause> my dad was a sml businessman and i was rely exci to see them ma t-shirts on silk screens because that's what my dad did on a bigger sce when he had a little print plant that prin drapery fabrics using silk screens. i used to help him from e to e and i believe in sml business, that's why i want to be a sml business president. and that's a big contrast with   who has spent his career stiffing sml businesses, refusing to pay the s. <applause> i don't know what would have happened in my family if after my dad had worked so hard he showed up with the fabrics that he prin for the drapes and they said sorry, we're not paying you. honestly, that is not how we do business in ama and so we're going to stand up for sml business and help create more of them to help create more good jobs here in iowa and across ama. <applause> we are so going to make the economy fairer. how are we going to do that? we're going to raise the nation minimum wage so it's no longer a starvation wage. <applause> we are so going to do what tom harkin has stood for his entire life, we're going to make sure people with disabilities have jobs and opportunities in this economy. <applause> and we're going to make sure that women finly get equ pay for the work we do. <applause> so yes, i've been laying out plans ever since i showed up here in iowa back in april of 2015 and i am thrilled to be the  nominee, to be able to campaign on those plans and take them to washington. <applause> now, i've got to tell you. if you look at the plans i've laid out and one of independent anysts have done that, here's what they conclude. under my plans we'll create about 10.4 million new jobs in ama.<applause>
<:> under  's so-cled plans, we will lose about three and a hf million jobs. now let me translate that into iowa because if you divide the country by population, here in iowa you could gain 101,000 jobs under my plans and lose more than 33,000 jobs under  's plans. so i've got to tell you what i believe, which is that if we want to get the economy wor for everybody, then we need a campaign that lays out the agenda so people can vote for it, so that when i'm elec, i can tell the congress this is what the people of ama vo for us to do. <applause> so i get pretty exci and pretty carried away, enthusiastic about what we can do because we've done it before. i couldn't believe l that negative pessimistic tk coming out of the  convention. i didn't know what country they were t about. of course, we have chlenges. yes. we have problems, of course we do. but there is nothing ama can't do if we decide to set some gos and pursue them because, you know what? we are stronger together. <applause> and let me say -- let me say something about what i think is a critic difference between my opponent and myself. words matter, my friends. <applause> and if you are running to be president, or you are president of the uni states, words can have tremendous consequences. yesterday, we witnessed the latest in a long line of casu comments from   that cross the line. his casu cruelty to a gold star family. his casu suggestion that more countries should have nuclear weapons. and now, his casu inciting of violence. every single one of these incidents shows us that   simply does not have the temperament to be president and commander-in- chief of the uni states. <applause> so the stakes have never by higher. i am humbled and moved by the s who are willing to stand up and say that   doesn't represent their vues. <applause> not only as s, but as amans. i have to tell you, i feel that e sense of responsibility. we may not agree on everything, but this is not a norm election. and i will work hard for the next three months to earn the support of anyone willing to put our country first. <applause> as a young man said to me in florida the other day, friends don't let friends vote for . <laughter> <applause> i so think 's belief that he one can fix ama's problems is so contrary to who we are as a nation. our founders set up our country so that we had three branches of government that had to work together. we had the feder government, state and loc governments that had to work together. and that's what we've done so successfully. and ong comes  and basicly says, "i can do this one."
<:> well, what about the troops on the front lines who rely on each other and support each other? what about our law enforcement officers who rely on each other and support each other? <applause> what about our teachers and our educators who rely on each other and support each other? <applause> what about our doctors and our nurses who rely on each other and support each other? <applause> we know that we're stronger together because we've seen what happens when we work together. and that is exactly what we're going to do to build on the progress that we've made; to set those gos and go after them together. but i can't do this without your help. i  you will join this campaign. please join us. <applause> join us by texting join -- j-o-i-n 247246, or go to .com. we are organizing across iowa. <applause> we're going to be helping people vote early so that they can make sure that their vote will count. we're going to be reaching into every part of this state. and we're going to be t and listening as we did way back in april, to learn what's on the minds of iowans and to figure out what you need from the next president. now, i know that any election is hard. it's filled with unpredictable twists and turns. but i want you to imagine what you will feel like the day after that election if we have not come together to chart a course of confidence and opism that will rely get our economy wor for everyone, keep us safe and maintain aman leadership around the world, and unify our country. that is what i will spend every single day wor to achieve. and with your help, iowa, we will win iowa. we will win the election. and then we will work together for the future we are see. thank you and god bless you. <title=" rodham ,  presidenti candidate, holds a media availability">
<date:"2016-09-29">
<:> before they cast their votes early or on november 8th. so we will continue to highlight the differences and tk about what we want to do that's going to make life better for the families of ama. <crosstk>
<unidentified me: right here with the cameras.>
<:> l right. and i'm sorry guys. i'm wor on a feature.
<unidentified feme: so you tk a lot about the middleclass, you have throughout the campaign, i'm hoping that you can help define it for me. and i'm thin both, like, numly, where is the -- in terms of policy, tax policy, where do you put the middleclass? and then, so philosophicly, what is the middleclass to you, what does it mean?>
<:> well, the middleclass is the soci and economic engine of our country. it is in so many ways a reflection of the success of the uni states from the very beginning, to create greater economic opportunity for people willing to work for it. and it has been one of the premier historic accomplishments of our country going back decades, if not longer. and the middleclass is a hard-to-define economic target. the way i tk about it is to say, we know what the median income in ama is. but if you're living in high-cost areas, if you have kids you're trying to educate and send to college, if you face hethcare costs that are beyond the average, staying in and progressing up in the middleclass takes more money in some parts of ama than it does in <inaudible> so my pledge has been, that i will not raise taxes on the middleclass, and i have defined it as i will not raise taxes on anyone ma less than $250,000 a year, because in high-cost places in ama, that is a -- in many ways, a cut-off that makes sense. it's something that president  had adhered to. it's something my husband adhered to. because when you look at the information and across the country, i mean, housing is so much more expensive in lots of places than other places. and you understand why we've set it at that. so, the middleclass is both re and aspiration, and i want to make sure that it remains strong and it gives people a sense of security and confidence and opism about their futures. <crosstk>
<unidentified feme: madam secretary, how worried are you about third-party candidates in gener,   in particular? could he be a spoiler, and would he be quified in your view to be president at l?>
<:> well, look, i am just going to keep running my campaign and do everything i can to encourage people to actuly get out and vote. i think either   or i will be the president of the uni states. and so, people have to look carefully in ma their decision about who to vote for, because it will be either him or me, and i am going to do everything i can to make sure it's me. <crosstk> 
<unidentified feme: secretary , so   today ->
<unidentified me: you've got a number of  endorsements, but polls show the  voters are still solid behind  - are still behind  solidly as s are behind you. are you disappoin you have not gotten as much  voters support?>
<:> i am thrilled of the amount of  voter support i've gotten. i rely am. and from people who understand the stakes in this election and are re thought leaders with a lot of experience, so the 50 nation security professions who came out and said they could not support   some months ago, i think spoke volumes about his lack of fitness and quifications for the job. business leaders from  bloomberg to meg whitman and so many others who understand what it will take to have a competitive economy that works for everybody, not just those at the top, they've been on the front lines. and we have an increasing number of people who actuly been  office holders, one current one as you know, congressman hanna from new york, to then yesterday, senator -- former senator warner from virginia, who i had the great honor of wor with when he chaired the armed services comee. so, i'm rely honored and proud to have the level of support and the message that it sends by people who understand what the next president is going to be facing and have said   should not be anywhere near the ov office. <crosstk>
<unidentified me: -- your flight.>
<:> oh, is this your first flight?
<unidentified feme: this is my first flight. yes.>
<:> welcome aboard.
<unidentified feme: thank you very much. very happy to be here. i appreciate it. secretary , the  campaign is signling that they are poised to get person about your husband's past, about your past. how will you respond at the debates and what's your response today?>
<:> he can run his campaign however he chooses. that's up to him. i'm going to keep t about the stakes in this election. i'm going to keep t about my agenda that will, i believe, increase growth, make it fairer, have it be lasting, de with the re problems that families are confronting. what i want to do to keep ama safe, and to provide the kind of steady, strong leadership that the country needs, and to bring people together, which is going to be one of the highest priorities that i will have when i'm fortunate enough to be elec president, if that's what turns out. so, you know, i'm not going to comment on how he runs his campaign. you'll be able to see, we have two more debates, what he says and what i say. <crosstk>
<unidentified feme: actuly, i wan to ask you a few follow- up questions. (inaudible) go to florida very late tonight, tomorrow, do you think that   cuba story resonates in particular in florida? and you're not a huge fan of continuing the embargo, so like, who cares or he would have been (inaudible)>
<:> well, you know, look, we have laws in our country and the efforts that  was ma to get into the cuban markets with his business interests ahead of the laws of the uni states, and the requirements that his businesses were operating under because of the sanction, shows that he put his person and business interests ahead of the laws and the vues and the policies of the uni states of ama. now, i was a strong supporter of moving toward creating an opening with cuba, when i was secretary of state. i applauded president 's efforts, and i will continue those when i am president. but,   knew what the law was and from everything we can tell by those investigative reporting that has been done, he deliberately wan it. and why should it be surprising that somebody who is happy to give his tax returns to state agencies deciding whether he gets to have a casino but not with the aman people? and, in fact, says it's smart not to pay taxes, while he at the e e criticizes and denigrates the uni states of ama. so, i think it's important for voters to see that this is someone who ways puts himself first. and even in the cuban-aman community, there has been a change of opinion about what's the best way to bring freedom and democracy and n rights to cuba, but there was so a very clear understanding of what our laws were and who they covered, which was clear, and unfortunately, it looks like he didn't pay attention to them, but why should we be surprised? <crosstk>
<unidentified me: secretary ?>
<unidentified me: do you have your hand up?>
<unidentified me: you simply want more women to run for and win office and high office, fill in the obligation when  brings up your husband's past to speak out against spouses indiscretions or past being brought into a campaign like this?>
<:> no.
<unidentified feme: secretary ?>
<unidentified me: one more right here.>
<unidentified feme:   today invoked your husband's impeachment as evidence that he says the s are, quote, "distor the past" and his presidency would be, quote, "be bright and very clean future." wondering if you have any response to that comparison?>
<:> no. look, he can say whatever he wants to say, as we well know, we have seen it in re-e over the last many months, and i'm going to keep running my campaign t about what i think the aman people are interes in, t about how we're going to make a difference in their lives. i love the event. i had with senator  yesterday in new hampshire. i loved my college cculator. i  you l will write about it again because that's what i think people are loo for. it's how can we get our government wor for you. how can we help you de with the everyday chlenges you face, and you know, this amazing college cculator that our team put together will rely provide good information. and i want you to understand that is in line with what i want to do more of in the government. we need to use technology more. we need to get information out. we need to have, you know, people be able to access easily information about government programs, or costs, or whatever it is that's on their minds. so, you know, that's what i'm going to be doing, i'm going to be t about how we make college tuition free for under $125,000 per family and debt-free for everybody else. i think that -- i think that's what people care about.
<unidentified feme: who's your favorite world leader?>
<:> oh! let me think! look, i like a lot of the world leaders. one of my favorites is angela merkel, because i think she's been an extraordinary strong leader during difficult es in europe, which has obvious implications for the rest of the world. particularly our country. you know, her leadership and steadiness on the euro crisis and her bravery in the face of the refugee crisis is something that i am impressed by, i've known her for a long e, she and i have known each other back in the 1990s, i spent a lot of e with her, and i  i have the opportunity to work with her in the future, but we can tk about lots of different leaders if you want to.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event, fort lauderde, florida">
<date:"2016-11-01">
<:> wow! <applause>
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> thank you so much! <applause> and thank you for being out here on this beautiful night. it is great to be back with l of you. on sunday, i had the great privilege of spea to the congregation at new mount olive baptist church. <applause> and i couldn't leave town without stopping at betty's for some soul food. <applause> and it's wonderful to be here with so many of my friends and people i admire. i want to thank congressman cee hastings who just rely came out here and revved everybody up. <applause> i want to thank the one, the only, congressman  lewis, an icon in the civil rights movement. <applause> my friend, congresswoman debbie wasserman schultz... <applause> congressman  deutch. <applause> and i have to tell you, i am rely exci and very ful that you will send pat murphy to the uni states senate! <applause> so let me thank l the elec officis who are here, because this is a big de. there are only now seven days left in the most important election of our lifees. we cannot take anything, anybody, anywhere for gran. are you ready to work hard and win this election? <applause> well, that is exactly the right answer because we need to do everything we possibly can between now and the e the polls close one week from tonight, because any issue you care about -- anything -- is at stake. i get somees a little overwhelmed of the fact that i love this country and i think we are great. <applause> and i think <inaudible>. <applause> we're not going backwards, we're going forward! <applause> <inaudible> focus on what's important. don't get distrac, don't get diver. focus on <inaudible> create. <applause> <inaudible> let's stay focused on one thing, on you, on your lives, your families, the problems that keep you up at night. and that's what i'm doing now because i know the day after the election that's what rely counts. <applause> ask yourself, what kind of president and commander in chief do we need to get the economy wor for everyone, not just those at the top? <applause> who can keep us safe and lead the world with intelligence and steadiness and strength? <applause> who can begin to he the divides that have been exacerba between us and bring amans together again? well, i'll tell you what,   has proven himself to be temperamently unfit and unquified to be president of the uni states. <applause> you know, i don't say that about everybody. i have known a lot of the people who ran for president on both sides, s and s. i disagreed with them, don't get me wrong, but i never thought they were unfit to serve.   is different. he has proven himself unfit. and what he is doing with his conspiracy theories, with his insulting, with his demeaning and degrading millions of amans proves he should not be lowed anywhere near the white house. <applause> so on the one hand, you've got to feel kind of sorry about the kind of campaign he's running, don't you? i mean, he starts by insulting immigrants, he moves on to insult l latinos, he insults african amans, he insults muslims, he insults people with disabilities, he insults pows, he then insults women <inaudible>. <applause> by the e you add up l the people he's insul, that's more than hf the population of the uni states. <applause> but here's the good news. the good news is there is another vision for ama that's on the blot. <applause> instead of dark and divisive, it is ful and inclusive. it's big-hear, not sml-minded. it's about lifting people up, not tearing each other down. <applause> it is a vision that says, and i believe this with l my heart, we are stronger together, there is nothing we can't do <inaudible>. <applause> and we believe in an ama that is great because it is good. we believe in an ama where women are respec... <applause> ... where veterans are honored... <applause> ... where parents are suppor, where workers are paid fairly. and we believe in an ama of second chances, where people who have served their debt to society get a re chance to rebuild their lives... <applause> ... so we can end the school-to-prison pipeline and build a cradle-to-college pipeline instead. <applause> and we believe in an ama that will lead the world in the fight against climate change... <applause> ... and create millions of clean-energy jobs. we believe in an ama where marriage is a right and discrimination is wrong. <applause> and we believe in an ama that believes in the world and lives up to our vues, an ama where women finly get equ pay for the work they do. <applause> we believe in an ama where we will raise the nation minimum wage so no one wor full e will still be in poverty. <applause> we believe in an ama where we will defeat terrorists because we will work with our lies in order to put together the coition that can do that. <applause> we believe in an ama where we know the difference between our lies and our adversaries. <applause> and we believe in an ama where we're finly do something about the violence of gun epidemics that kill 33,000 people a year. <applause> we believe in an ama where every young person can afford to go to college and not go into debt. <applause> we believe in an ama where we're going to help people who ready have student debt pay it back faster, more cheaply <inaudible>. <applause> we believe in an ama where we're going to provide quity, affordable heth care to every person, and that includes bringing down the cost of prescription drugs and guaranteeing the security <inaudible>. <applause> <inaudible> soci security is a solemn promise. we'll not privatize it, we will not turn it over to wl street like my opponent wants to do. <applause> we believe in an ama where people ma less than $250,000 should not have an increase in their feder income taxes, but the wethy should pay their fair share. <applause> and we believe in an ama where we grow the economy from the middle up and the bottom up, not the discredi tle-down economics that   has been advocating for. and, you know, by the way, we believe in an ama where if somebody claims he's worth $10 ion he ought to pay some feder income tax. <applause> did any of you see the debates?
<audience: yes!>
<:> so, you know, i spent four-and-a-hf hours <inaudible> watching  , which proves conclusively i have the stamina to do this job. <laughter> <applause> so one of the things i said <inaudible> i just -- when i learned him and studied him and reized <inaudible> it just sort of stunned me. standing next to a guy who flies around in a blue jet, who flies around in a helicopter, he has his name on those, he has his name on buildings, and actuly one hf of the wor undocumen immigrants in ama pay more in feder income tax than he does. <applause> you live in an ama where we're going to finly have comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship. <applause> we believe in an ama where women are trea with respect. <applause> and as i was in pasco county earlier today t about what's at stake in this election, i was introduced by a former miss universe pageant winner, icia machado, who   has insul and denigra. and rely, oh, if you're miss universe you look pretty good, right? <applause> and   cled her miss piggy, insul her heritage, cled his miss housekeeping because she's a latina. well, i was proud of her. she doesn't let such a sml person get her down. <applause> but i've got to say that i listened to what he said and how he tks about women and what he has bragged about doing to women. i want l the girls in ama to know you are vuable, you should feel good about yourselves <inaudible>. <applause> and i want to say to l the young boys show respect because that shows you you're a re man and you <inaudible>. <applause> so, you know, literly, i mean, this is so much fun and it's rely late, but i could be here l night <inaudible> election. <applause> but i think you ready know because you've been out here and you've been willing to be here with me because we know that we've got to turn out the vote. <applause> and what means is that every one of you who can should vote early. how many of you have ready vo? <applause> and it doesn't surprise me because four million people in florida have ready vo. <applause> but there are millions more that we've got to get to go out and vote, which is what i  we will do. tk to your friends, your family members, your coworkers. it is pretty easy to vote early in florida. there are lots of different places in this county and every other neighboring county for you to go to. and it's important to tell people who got blots in the mail, fill them out and send them in because we need everybody to step up. and remember, there's no state where it's more important. you know what happened in 2000, right? i was with   in miami and he can tell you better than anyone every vote counts, especily here in broward county. <applause> and, you know, this is not complica. if people who support our positive, inclusive, unifying vision vote, we win. <applause> and we will make history on november the 8th. <applause> so if you've ready vo, come work with us, make some of the cls. we're ma millions of cls, knoc on thousands, hundreds of thousands of doors to encourage everybody to be sure to vote. and, you know, you can vote right near here at the african- aman... <audio gap>
<:> ... but there are dozens of other sites. and l sites in broward county are open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. every day until november the 6th. so if you don't know where you're supposed to vote, that's easy, too. you can go to iwillvote.com and that will tell you the nearest early-voting location to where you live. and i want you to so do me another favor. if you know anybody who says they're thin of voting from , i want you to stage an intervention. <applause> and i want you to tk to this person because unless they're a ionaire who avoided paying taxes for 20 years and lost a ion dollars running casinos, they don't have anything to gain from  . in fact, we do have so much to lose. every single issue we care about may not be actuly lis on the blot, but make no mistake it's on there. and tk to your friend and your coworker and say, no, rely, you may be angry about something, but anger is not a plan. <applause> don't be used, don't be exploi. stand up for what we can do together because that's what this election ulately comes down to. it's about our future, it's about who we are as a country. and i promise you this, if you give me the great honor of serving as your president, i will wake up every day in that white house trying to figure out what i can do <inaudible>. <applause> ama's best days are still ahead of us <inaudible> dark, pessimistic vision. it's not true and it's not who we are as amans. so at least stand up and we say no, we're rejecting that, we're not going back, we are going to move with confidence in the future forward into the kind of potenti that makes it possible for every single person to live up to his or her god-given potenti, then we're going to grow the future we want together and we're going to prove once and for l that love s hate.<title=" rodham ,  presidenti candidate, and sen.  , vice presidenti candidate, deliver remarks">
<date:"2016-09-05">
<: hey, guys. how are you doing? happy labor day! (applause) wow, ain't no mountain high enough. are we going to climb that mountain on november 8 and make history? (applause) absolutely. man, cleveland does rock. (applause) wow, cleveland does rock. it is so good to be here and it's especily good to be here on labor day when we acknowledge l the hard work. l the history that's been made by unions, labor, and wor people in this country. give it up... (applause) ... give it up for unions, give it up for labor. i want to do a few thank you's because it takes a lot of great people to put an event like this together. first, your congresswoman marcia fudge, what -- isn't she the best? she did such a good job for us at the convention, such a good job, so great to have her here. boy, as we were doing some thank you's and photos, everybody who came through the line, she gave us who they were and everything about them in 7.5 seconds. i have never seen a presentation so good, your congresswoman. in the u.s. senate, i have no better friend than sherrod brown. sherrod and connie are sitting right there. (applause) you are so lucky to have sherrod. and you're going to be lucky on the evening of november 8 when they cl this election and you had another great ,  stland, to the uni states senate. (applause) my friend, , we were governors together and had -- we -- we spent a lot of good e together when we were governors together, and it's great to be here with you, . congresswoman beatty, thank you so much. give it up for joyce beatty and her husband. (applause) and then your mayor, mayor jackson, so good to be with you. thank you so much. give him a round of applause. (applause) and then what a treat to be standing here on stage with these great labor leaders, president trumka, afl-cio. what a great friend, rich. (applause) i got to know him when he was head of the uni mine workers. we got a big mineworkers presence in virginia. he's a guy who's ways told it straight, ways had my back. and i can't tell you how much i appreciate your leadership to this day. thank you. i weingarten with aft. give her a round of applause. (applause) and raise your hand if you are an educator so we can give you l a round of applause. to our educators. (applause) and then, your hometown guy, afscme internation president lee saunders. give it up for lee. (applause) now i know that there are other elecs here, too, in particular. i think   might be here. give   a round of applause. (applause) i think he was here earlier. look, this is a -- this is a big day because i think, you know, labor day sort of starts the home stretch of the campaign. so do we feel like battle-tes and ready for the home stretch so that we can make history and elect   on the eighth of november? (applause) and ohio is going to be there, right? (applause) you guys have a habit of being there because you know how to do it, you know how to do it, you know how to make the grassroots work so that we can move progress in this nation forward, and that's what we're going to do on november 8 with . (applause) can i just tell you -- i'm going to tk for a few minutes and then i'm going to bring her out. i know we're rely here for her. but i want to tell you how proud i am to be on this ticket. and i want to tell you something about . when she cled and asked if i'd be on the ticket, she said something rely important that tells you the way she thinks about the job she's going to have to do. she asked me and i star to say yes and she said, no, be quiet. i haven't told you why yet." she said, look, the test of a  administration will not be a  signing. it will not be the margin by which something passes in the house or the senate. that's not going to be the test. the test is going to be, do we do something that makes a classroom better for a teacher that wants to teach and a child that wants to learn? that will be the test. (applause) can we do something that will make it safer in a neighborhood or that will make it easier for parents around the table as they're t about how to afford college for their kids? can we do something that will make a workplace safer or a business more able to hire people or a worker find that they can get skills more easy or a job more easy? you know, the test is going to be -- in a  administration -- can we make a tangible, concrete, significant difference in the lives of everyday amans? that's going to be the test. folks, that tells you something about who   is. (applause) she is focused upon everyday folks. she's running against a guy who's been sitting up on the penthouse, and he doesn't even understand the lives of everyday folks, and he's not focused on ma the lives of everyday folks any better. and so she said, look, you've been a mayor. you've been a governor. you've been a senator. i think you can help me figure out how to make sure that what we do impacts people in their daily lives. so, needless to say, i'm proud to be on the ticket with the woman who is the most quified person to be president... (applause) ... that either party has nomina for a long e and probably ever. and can i tell you something that rely made me mad today?   put out a tweet today about our nominee for president and the tweet essentily said, she doesn't look presidenti, does she, fellas? (booing) wait, listen to that again. listen to that again. this is what he said, she doesn't not look presidenti, does she, fellas? does she, fellas? here is my prediction. at the end of the second term of  ,   will still be saying that very e thing as he's haw bottled water somewhere and we forgotten that he ever ran for president of the uni states. (applause) it is important that we're here on labor day. i grew up in a -- in a labor house, just a quick story. my dad ran an iron worker-organized welding and met shop in the stockyards of kansas city, missouri. and my dad's shop -- some of these guys have heard me tell the story -- five employees in a bad year, 12 employees in a good year, plus my two brothers, and me, and my mom. and here is what my dad taught me. he taught me that his business judgment would put his workers' kids through school, but he ways taught my brothers and me, and the artistry of my union iron workers will put you boys through school. it's about teamwork. it's about wor together. it's about shared prosperity. that's what this country is built on and that's what our ticket and our party stand for. (applause) shared prosperity, the vue of hard work, and the fact that we can do more and that we are stronger together. now since the -- since the convention, when i got added to the ticket, the first thing we did is go right out on trail on a bus tour through pennsylvania and ohio to tk about building an economy that works for everybody. that is going to be the number one test of the  administration -- wor together. can we not put it in a brochure or put it in an ad, but can we implement it and do it so that people l over this country see that they have a ladder to climb? right, that they have a ladder to climb to prosperity. thank goodness. president  has brought us out of the worst recession since the 1930s. (applause) thank goodness for him. and you l know he had to do that without one party in congress lifting one finger to help him. it was very difficult to create 15 million new jobs to cut the unemployment rate in hf, to make pensions and retirement accounts were something again, and we owe it to president  to thank him for what he has done. (applause) however, we so know in ohio and virginia, everywhere, there is more to do because there are too many people, and they might be in inner-cities. they might be in rur ama. they might be in co country. they might be in indian country. too many people who don't look out and see that they have a ladder that they can climb to success. and what we got to do, what  and i are bound and determined and promised to do is work together with congress to try to put some important new policies in place so that people see that ladder and we build an economy that works for l. and that's why we have been going around the country since the convention, t about what we're going to do. we're going to invest in manufacturing and infrastructure, and labor will be key... (applause) ... to ma those investments, hiring people ma it work. we're going to invest in education and skills from early childhood education to giving our teachers the tools and flexibility they need to succeed in the classroom without a lot of top-down strings l over them from washington. we're going to make college affordable, debt-free for amans and free community college for people who can't afford it. (applause) and we're going to reinvigorate career and technic training because you don't just need a college degree to succeed, union apprenticeship programs, career and technic education are a path to success in the 21st century. we're going to focus on that. (applause) we're going to focus on equity. raising the minimum wage for god sakes so that you don't work full-e in this country and be below the poverty level. equ pay for women, i mean, what a -- what a novel concept that would be. child care tax credits so that a wor parent can have a good job without spending too much of their money on high-quity child care. we're going to do that. so it's about investments, it's about education, it's about equity, and it's so about knowing that sml businesses are the backbone of our economy. two-thirds of jobs in this country crea by sml businesses,  knows that from her family background, and i do, too. that's what we're going to do.  , folks, will be a you're hire" president. who here wants a you're hired president? (applause) obviously, obviously. well, you know what kind of president   is going to be? (booing) a you're fired president. i mean, there's sort of a poetic justice to the fact that when we think about   before he was running for president, we knew him as a guy who was known for the two words, you're fired. when they tell you who they are, pay attention to it. that's who he is. that's kind of -- that's the kind of president he'll be. and you see it with everything he's done when he was building casinos, and golf course headquarters, and sml businesses like my dad's would get the contract to do the work, and they would do the work, and they would pay their employees, and they would pay their materi costs, and they would say, i'm done. what do you think? and they would be told, yes, the work is great. well, pay me, and then  would stiff them. hundreds of businesses he wouldn't pay. some had to go into bankruptcy because he knew he was a big guy, and he thought he could just push aside the little guys. and they got hurt -- they got hurt because they trus  . the students who gave him thousands of dollars to go to his bogus university got hurt because they trus  . retirees who gave them money for condos in florida and never got the condos got hurt because they trus  . and now   wants us to trust him? are you kidding me? are you kidding me? (booing) he's doing a job interview. that's what this is. you know, when i'm doing a job interview, you are interviewing us. you're interviewing  and  to be president. and he is coming out and he says, i want this job. and you say, well, let's see. every president since nixon, folks, has produced their tax returns. why don't you produce your tax returns? no, i'm not going to do it. well, how about giving information about your heth, you know, medic records, no, i'm not going to do it. how about information about with you own money to wl street banks or the bank of china, no, i'm not going to do it. if somebody came to your office and they wan a summer job and you asked them questions that were important and they didn't answer, would you give them the job?>
<audience: no.>
<: then you cannot give the job of commander-in-chief, president of the uni states to a guy who won't answer the basic questions of the aman public. we just can't do it. (applause) he must think we're gullible. he must think we're chumps. he must think we're marks, but we're not. ohioans are not gullible. virginians are not gullible. amans are not gullible. and that's why we're not going to elect  . and that's why we're going to support the ,you're hired president,  . (applause) last thing i want to say, this is an important thing to me. i made my career before i got into politics as a civil rights lawyer. i was doing fair housing litigation l over virginia and in other states in the south. when somebody was turned away from housing because of their race or because of their disability, i would take the case and represent them in court. often, they couldn't find anybody else to represent them... (applause) ... but i did it because housing is so important, and everybody is entitled to be trea fairly regardless of the color of their skin, regardless of their disability. and, you know,   got out of law school and she could have gone to wl street, but instead she went to work with the children's defense fund, fighting to advance civil rights and the juvenile justice system in south carolina, the education system in abama. so this is what i did early and this is what  did early. and let me tell you about 's early career. he came into a family business and shortly after he got deeply involved in it, he got sued by the justice department for discriminating against people based on the color of their skin -- a massive housing lawsuit brought by the justice department. and the evidence was when applications would come in, if somebody had dark skin, latino or african-aman, they would put a c on the application, and that would be the sign for that person to get second-class treatment. we do not need a president who thinks that any aman should get second-class treatment. we're l equ in this country. (applause) we l deserve first-class treatment. and we got to have a president who understands that. now, right before i introduce , i just want to say this. this is the home stretch. you know, we -- we've done -- a number of us have done multiple labor day events ready to celebrate labor -- but so labor day is the start of the home stretch in the campaign. between labor day and election day, that's when the focus is on and that's when the spotlight is the greatest, and that's when we have to do our best work. and, you know, let me -- you said, thanks for coming to ohio. no, i am than you for coming out when we come to ohio. (applause) we got to come to ohio. we have to come to ohio. you l know this. you're used to this. you're used to the fact that you are one of the two or three most important states in any presidenti election going back since there were presidenti elections. and that's why we're here with you. here's what we know about the next nine weeks, you're going to see a lot of negative ads on tv, right? i mean, , you know the de. a group can form and get money from some millionaire or ionaire. they can themselves, citizens for apple pie. they don't tell you who they are. they put up a bunch of negative ads saying things that are largely fse, and you can't connect them to it because they won't tell you who they are. sadly, that's what campaigning has come to these days. but we, s, we know how to do this because we learned how to do it from labor. we can beat l the negative ads. we can beat l the consultants. we can beat l the posters. and we can beat them by doing person-to-person, right? isn't that what ohio knows how to do? (applause) and that's how we win -- even in a nation of 330 million people. you know, i'll tell you something, i think people now tune-out the negative ads. sherrod had a ton of that money spent against him in 2012 just like i did, but people kind of tune it out because they look at it and they -- i don't know. they're not sure they can believe it. but can i tell you what they do believe, what people still believe deeply? they believe in a word from somebody they care about and from somebody they trust -- a neighbor, somebody in their church, somebody they go to school with, somebody they work with. if you reach out and tk to them, you can persuade somebody who's undecided or you can persuade somebody who is decided but may not vote that this is a very important election for the future of this country. are you willing to do that, make that person-to-person -- person-to-person effort? (applause) and i'll tell you something else. they don't even have to know you. they rely don't even have to know you. if you cl somebody or knock on their door and say, i'm a volunteer for  , what they're going to hear is, volunteer. well, they didn't have to do this. they're doing it because they're passionate about it. and our citizens who are trying to decide they want a word from somebody that they can tk to, somebody who can answer a question, you have the ability to make a difference and get people to take this seriously and see the consequences. and we know you know how to do it because ohio ways seems to figure out how to do it. so between now and november 8th, we're just as, raise your hand if you are ready volunteering for the campaign. l right. give them a round of applause. that's great. for anybody who is not yet volunteering, you can do it. l you got to do is text "together" to 47246. that's l you have to do -- "together" 47246, and then you will be brought into the campaign, and we can work re hard to make history on november 8. and then the re work starts ma history every day after november 8 with president  . so now let me do a great introduction. i have had a wonderful honor to be on this ticket for . we just did an interview before i came over and somebody asked, what have you learned about her? and i said, i'll tell you something, i suspec about her, but i have learned it about her. this is one lady who never backs down. (applause) this is one lady who never backs down. from the e she was a teenager in a methodist youth group, she has been impassion and focused on the success of families and kids. and folks, whether she's been in office or out, whether she is winning or losing, whether she is getting something passed or having the other side knock it back, she does not forget where she came from. she does not forget what motivates her. and that's why i am so proud to say i'm with . we're with . we're going to make history with . please welcome  , the next president of the uni states. (applause)>
<:> hey, cleveland. happy, happy labor day. <applause> when we were trying to figure out where we could be, we l said, "let's go to cleveland." <applause> and i want to thank congresswoman marcia fudge for hosting us. <applause>
<audience: . . .>
<:> i haven't tked so every e i think about  i get lergic. <applause> boy, we have 63 days to go.
<audience: 63 days. 63 days. 63 days.>
<:> well, thank you. well -- well, you just heard the next vice president, didn't you? <applause> in addition to than marcia fudge, let me so thank your great senator sherrod brown. so -- excuse me. so, two other great members of congress,   and joyce beatty. <applause> and your mayor, thanks to mayor jackson. <applause> and i  -- i  that ohio will send  stland to the senate. <applause> now behind me are some of the great labor leaders of our country -- i weingarten... <applause> ... lee saunders... <applause> ... rich trumka. <applause> i'm proud to be on the e stage with them because they're ways fighting for wor families. now, once i get over my lergic reaction... <laughter> ... let me say that, we are here in part because we know how important this election is to ohio. it's not just, as  said -- that ohio is one of the battleground states you hear about every four years. it's that ohio represents everything that's great about ama, and l of the chlenges and the opportunities that we face. that's why this election is critic to every person in this state. and what i want to emphasize is i know we can't face our problems one. we have to work together. we believe we are stronger together. and that is in stark contrast to  . remember what he said at his convention. he said, i, one, can fix it. now, think about what that leaves out, my friends. that leaves out l of our troops on the front lines. it leaves out our police officers and firefighters who run toward danger. it leaves out doctors and nurses who care for us. it leaves out teachers and educators who care for the most important people in our lives, our children. it leaves out everybody except him. and when he says, i, one, can fix it, that clearly demonstrates he doesn't understand how ama works, how we got great, and why we are great today, and what we need to do together to face the future. because our campaign is about we will fix it together, we will work together, we will bring our country together. <applause> and what better example of that are our labor unions. they are built... <applause> ... on the principle of solidarity. they look out for each other. they fight for fair wages and collective bargaining for safe wor conditions. just last week, we learned once again because another study came out that confirms what we ready knew. when more workers are in unions, wages are higher and not just for union members, but for l workers. <applause> that's why if  and i are elec, we're going to say no to attacks on unions. no to rolling back collective bargaining. no to unfair trade des like tpp. no to pension cuts that deny you the secure retirement that you've earned. no to right to work because right to work is wrong for workers and wrong for ama. <applause> but we're not just about saying no. we're going to say yes to standing up for workers rights and dignity. yes to good jobs and efits. yes to the aman dream. it is big enough for everyone to share the promise. <applause> and so, that's why during this campaign, i have been running a campaign based on issues, not insults. <applause> i believe anyone who asks for your vote should tell you what they're going to do. starting tomorrow, you can read about the plans  and i have because we're putting out a book. did somebody have a copy of that book? hey, somebody back there, you got a copy of the book i can show the crowd? we're putting out a book cled "stronger together." <applause> that's more than a slogan for the campaign. that's a guiding principle for the future we want to build, and that's exactly what we're going to do. now some people say, wait a minute, you've got so many plans. well, you're right, i do have plans. you know, why? because i want you to know what i want to do to help you and what kind of results we're going to work to achieve. i have this old-fashioned idea that if you're as somebody to vote for you, they ought to tell you what they want to do and then hold you accountable when you get elec. <applause> and i'll tell you what, our plans start with a very simple idea, that we're going to get the economy to work for everyone, not just those at top. we're going to do it with the biggest investment in new jobs that we've had since world war ii. more infrastructure jobs, advanced manufacturing jobs, clean renewable energy jobs. anyone willing to work hard should have a job that can support them and their families, a job with dignity with only a future to be proud of, not to worry about. we're so going to offer new solutions for families. families are different today than they were in the 1950s for heaven's sakes, so we need to make sure we help support families the way they are today, not way back when, helping people support and bance family and work with paid family leave, earned sick days, affordable childcare. <applause> and finly guaranteeing equ pay for women's work. <applause> and here is our book. it's cled "strong together" for a reason. you can read about what we want to do on the economy and everything else. it will be available starting tomorrow, because the choice for families has never been clearer. just look at  's track record when it comes to hardwor men and women. i know, i'm lergic to it, too, but we have to look at his record. there are many people you know who are thin about voting for him. and you know, friends don't let friends vote for . <applause> and here is what you can tell among many things, he hired a union-busting firm to break up and organizing campaign at his hotel in las vegas. he built his career on refusing to pay workers, plumbers, painters, glass instlers, marble instlers, people who did work for him, and then he refused to pay them. he stiffs sml businesses like my dad. my dad and 's dad had rely sml businesses that gave us a good middle-class life. i am just so grateful my father never got a contract from  . <applause> my dad worked hard. he prin drapery fabrics. and i would go help him somees. there'd be a long table in his print plant. and the fabric would be rolled out, and then the silk screens would be laid down, and then you pour the paint in, then you take the squeegee. you push it across the screen. you lift it up. you go l the way down and you go to the second table l the way back. then when he finished, he'd load those drapery fabrics into his car and deliver them. i don't know what would have happened to my family if he had done a big job thin it was a good de for  and he gets there, and the  people say, we're not going to pay you. and then after harassing, maybe they say, ok, we'll pay you 30 cents on the dollar. he has driven hard-wor people into bankruptcy and taken six bankruptcies himself. now here in ohio, you know very much that a president makes decisions that affect people's lives and livelihoods. when millions of jobs were on the line in the auto industry, president  made the right decision to save the auto industry. <applause> i know we've got some uaw members here. <applause> i was proud to support them then. i'm even prouder now that the auto industry just had its best year ever. <applause> think how differently things could have turned out. i know this is hard to imagine if it had been   in the ov office. last year -- remember this, last year, he said it didn't matter whether or not we save the auto industry. either way would have been acceptable. he said we could have just let it go. never mind the 850,000 people in ohio and millions more across the country whose jobs and paychecks were tied to the auto industry. now what else could we expect from someone whose most famous words are, you're fired? this is the kind of difference that this election rely poses. people like  and me, who want to create more good jobs with rising wages and efits for everybody willing to work hard, that's the basic bargain of ama. and somebody who stiffed people to bankruptcy and laid off people, one of his bankruptcies put 1,000 people out of work. every e you hear him tk about how he knows how to create jobs, just look at the facts. educate yourself, and your friends, and your colleagues because, the kind of bluster and wild claims that he makes about everybody and everything don't stand up to any scrutiny. the e is true when it comes to whether we keep our country safe. stronger together means wor with our lies and our partners, right? <applause> we're not just electing a president, we're electing a commander-in-chief. so when   says, and i quote, "i know more about isis than the geners do." when he claims, as he has, that our armed forces are a disaster or he insults a gold star family, that's not just wrong and offensive, that's dangerous. our military is a nation treasure. and a president must respect the men and women who risk their lives and wear the uniform of our country. <applause> some of you know  's son is deployed right now. he's a marine. <applause>  and i will not only respect our men and women in uniform, we will protect them, and we will ensure that they are given the resources that they need to do the dangerous missions we ask them to do on our behf. last week, we saw even more evidence that  is temperamently unfit and totly unquified to be president. in just a few hours, he managed to turn his trip to mexico into an embarrassing internation incident. he even got into a twitter war with the president of mexico. and then he delivered his most hate-filled, hard, hard line speech yet -- doubling down on his absurd plans to send a deportation force to roundup 16 million people to deport them. now, you can't make this stuff up, can you? he can try to distract with divisive dangerous rhetoric. he could try to fool voters into thin somehow he's not as harsh and inne as he seems, but it's too late. when you see what he has said and done in this campaign, when you see that he can't even go to a foreign country without getting into a public feud with the president, i think the answer is clear.   does not have the temperament to be our commander-in-chief. <applause> imagine him in a re crisis. i've said it before, and i believe it -- a man you can bait with a tweet cannot be trus with nuclear weapons. <applause> now, look, i know that these elections are ways tight and hard. i am not ta anybody anywhere for gran. that's why we're here today because we need your help. we need to make sure we have an election that vidates the kind of positive future that will make life better for the people of ohio. and empty promises and raises to tax will do that. it won't get your family a job. it won't keep our troops safe. it won't he the divides in ama. i've spent my life fighting for kids and families. during the fight for heth reforms, some of you remember, powerful interest blocked our way, but i didn't give up. i turned around. i worked with s and s to help pass the children's heth insurance program that covers 8 million kids today. <applause> that's how you deliver re results. you can't get discouraged. you can't give up. you can never quit. but you got to start from the right vues and principles. you've got to believe in our country. you've got to believe in the aman people. <applause> i'm as for your help in these next two months. i'm as you to reach out to your friends, your neighbors, your family -- everybody you can possibly touch. i'm as you to join this campaign. you can go to .com or you could text "join," j-o-i-n, to 47246 because we want to win ohio. <applause> but you know, we don't want to just win it for the sake of winning it, we want to win it so that we can go onto the white house next january and get to work for you. <applause> we want to win it so we can take l the plans and l the ideas that will improve your lives, that will get the economy wor for everybody, not just those at the top, which will help make education affordable so college is within reach of everyone, and help you pay back your student debt. we want to defeat isis, keep our liances strong. we want to break down the barriers that hold any aman back. that's why we're running. we're not running because it's a nice thing to do after you have a reity tv show, right? we're running because between  and i, we have a lot of years -- a lot of years of public service. and we believe in what we can do together, and we believe that we can make our country even greater. so please join the campaign. be part of us having an aman future that is better than the past, that creates the opportunities for every single man, woman, and child. thank you, and god bless you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in cleveland, ohio (sd/24)">
<date:"2016-11-06">
<:> oh, my goodness. thank you! <applause> thank you l so much. <applause> it is great to be back in cleveland. i am thrilled to see l of you. i have to rely thank lebron, what he does on the basketbl court you l know, it makes him so speci, it makes him a champion. <applause> but i am just as impressed, as i have told him, about what he does off the court. <applause> because what he does off the court is to care for every child as though that child were his own. he has been so commit through the lebron family, the lebron james family foundation. he's using the nation platform he earned to advocate for children everywhere, especily right here in ohio. <applause> and it was an extra-speci treat to have j.r. smith here as well. <applause> i can't tell you how exciting it is for me to have lebron and j.r. part of the team that's going to take us to the white house starting on tuesday. <applause> i so have to thank a lot of the elec officis that i've worked with that i have such high regard for. let me thank your senator, sherrod brown. <applause> let me thank your amazing, absolutely indefatigable congresswoman, marcia fudge. <applause> let me thank your county executive armond budish. <applause> and let me thank and  you will vote for your former governor,  stland, to be your next senator. <applause> i want to thank the d.j. steph floss for his music performance. <applause> and i want to thank a very speci young man, yusef saam, who was out here. <applause> a young man who has turned what was a very bitter and unjust experience into an opportunity to try to help lift others up. now, i was thrilled to be here on friday night with jay z and beyonce. <applause> beyonce even had her dancers in blue pantsuits, which i love. <applause> but what was most important was how beyonce and jay z tked about what this election means for their daughter and for l of our daughters and sons. and that's why i am so grateful to them as well as to lebron because this election rely is about the future and it's about your kids and gkids and every child in this country that we  will have their own shot at the aman dream. they may not l become champion basketbl players, but everybody should have the right to go as far as their hard work and tent will take them in ama. <applause> so let me ask you this, are you ready to vote? <applause> are you ready to volunteer for the next few days? <applause> are you ready to choose our next president? <applause> well, i think by now you know the choice could not be any clearer. it rely is a choice between division or unity, between an economy that works for everyone or one that is stacked for those at the top, between strong, steady leadership or a loose cannon. and as you think about this choice, i want you to know where i am coming from, because what i want to do as your president is rely to build on and continue what i've done my entire life, fighting for kids and families... <applause> ... standing up for our country. if you elect me on tuesday, that's what i will do every day as your president. because from the start, our campaign has been focused on you. you know, i have now spoken in front of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people in sml groups and big events. and what i try to do while i'm up here spea is to rely look at the faces of the people in front of me because i don't know your dreams, i don't know your struggles, but i want so much to convey to you that i will be on your side, i will fight for you, fight for your families, fight for your futures. <applause> i want us to do l we can to help you get ahead and stay ahead. and my vision is very different from my opponent's. look, we know, we know enough about what he says and what he's done. you don't need to go through the litany of l the people he's insul and demeaned. but the bottom line is, his vision of ama is so dark and divisive. it's not the ama that i see as i travel around our country. i want us to have a vision that is ful, opistic and unified about what we can do together to make sure ama's best years are ahead of us. <applause> i love our country and i believe in our people. and i will never ever quit on you... <applause> ... no matter what. now, that is not to say we don't have our chlenges. of course we do, we're just n beings. but boy, we have so many assets, we have so many opportunities. and never forget, ama is great because ama is good. <applause> and if we act like that, we lift each other up instead of tearing each other down. we can be even greater. we've come through some tough economic es and lots is changing in our country. there are powerful forces inside and outside of ama that do threaten to pull us apart. and we've arrived at a moment of reckoning in this election. our core vues as amans are being tes. i think of l the people i've met across the country in this campaign, i've heard some rely, rely sad stories. you know, when you run for president, at least for me, the moments that stand out are about somebody grabbing my hand. i'll be in a coffee shop or maybe sha hands on a rope line and somebody will grab my hand and they will share a rely person feeling or experience with me. a lot of es it's about problems or troubles in their families. and i feel like they are entrusting me with this rely important piece of their lives. i wk away from that motiva, but i so wk away confident. my faith in our future has never been stronger. and i know if we come together, not just to win the election, that's just the beginning, but then to work together, there is something for every one of us to do in our own lives, our families, our neighborhoods and communities. i want an ama where everyone has a place, where everyone's included. and, you know, i know there's a lot of frustration and even anger in this election season. i see it, i hear it, somees, you know, i'm the subject of it. i get it. but anger is not a plan. anger is not going to get us new jobs with rising incomes... <applause> ... that will create a strong, thriving middle class. i believe that we're going to grow this economy. we're going to grow it from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down. <applause> that is what my opponent offers. and it might work for him, right? it might. but it's not going to work for the vast majority of wor amans. that's why i want us to have a big infrastructure jobs program. that is so much work to be done, good, honest, honorable... <applause> ... dignified work, our roads, our bridges, our ports, our airports, our tunnels, our water systems. and these are jobs that can't be expor. they've got to be done right here in cleveland... <applause> ... in youngstown, in dayton, in akron, in columbus and cincinnati. and we're going to bring back advanced manufacturing to ohio and elsewhere in our country. now, some people when i say this, they kind of, you know, look at me like, well, that's not going to happen. it is going to happen. and i'll tell you, two of my strongest lies are going to be sherrod brown and marcia fudge and i   stland when he gets to washington. <applause> people say to me l the e, well, how are you going to get anything done? won't there be gridlock? there will only be gridlock if people that are elec to represent you don't want to help you. it's not complica, my friends. if they want to keep helping the wethy, the powerful and the well-connec, yeah, then we're going to have gridlock, because i want jobs with rising incomes, i want people having a better shot at the future. <applause> and we are going to have more clean, renewable-energy jobs to combat climate change and put amans to work. <applause> and i want to be the best president sml business has ever had because that's where most of the new jobs will come from. <applause> and once we get these new jobs and we start producing more things in ama, i want people to buy those things in ama. <applause> you know, any of you see the debates? <applause> you know, in that last debate, i poin out that   has bought chinese steel to build his last two buildings, l the while he's been running around ohio t about what a great advocate he's going to be for wor people. <booing> he didn't have to buy chinese steel, he didn't have to help employ chinese steelworkers. he could have bought good aman steel made by aman steelworkers. <applause> so don't just watch what we say, watch what we've done for the last 30 years and whose side we've bet on. <applause> and we're going to make this economy fairer. look, i rely believe in hard work. that's how i was raised, that's the kind of family i came from. so i think everybody has to work. everybody who can needs to work. but i do think we need to raise the nation minimum wage... <applause> ... because if you work full e you shouldn't still be in poverty. and i so think if you're wor you ought to get paid fairly, which is why we need to guarantee equ pay for women's work. <applause> and, you know, this is not a woman's issue, this is a family issue. because if you've got a mother, a wife, a sister or a daughter wor, you don't want her shortchanged.
<audience: no!>
<:> and we need to start recognizing that a lot of the costs that families are facing now are rely burdensome. i want to get child care affordable, right? <applause> do you know, in a lot of states right now, good child care costs as much or more than in-state college tuition. that's crazy. who could afford that? and i want us to have paid family leave so if you get sick or your spouse is sick... <applause> ... or your parent is sick or your child is sick or you bring a newborn home. now, you know, i don't think these are luxuries anymore. i think these are l about rebuilding the aman middle class. i believe it's l about respecting work, providing enough jobs for people to have a good future, getting incomes rising, ma it work for everybody. and i have said i will pay for everything i'm proposing without adding a penny to the nation debt, right? <applause> and that is in very start contrast to my opponent, because what i've said is i am not raising taxes on the middle class. anybody ma less than $250,000 a year is not going to have any tax increase while i am president. <applause> but i am going where the money is and the money is with the wethy and corporations because they've done rely well in the last 15 years. and they should pay their fair share to support our country. <applause> and again, people say to me, well, how are you ever going to get that through congress? well, i'll tell you, i think it's pretty simple. i'm going to look at l the people, l the people who would be helped by everything i've just said, the new jobs and the rest of it, and i'm going to compare it to the very few people in every congression district who would have their taxes raised. and i'm going to say, whose side are you on, mr. or madam congresswoman? are you supporting the five people in your district who will have their taxes raised or are you supporting the 500,000 people who will be efi by what we're going to do together? <applause> and another big barrier that we've got to knock down is ma college affordable for every single person. <applause> it's outrageous. i meet people across ama who couldn't afford to start college, could not afford to stay and never gradua and still have debt. they don't have a degree, but they've got debt. that's crazy and i see some people pointing to themselves. i've got to tell you, look, i believe that education is an investment. that's why i want good schools with good teachers in every zip code in ama. <applause> that's why i want to get more technic education back into high schools because i think there are a lot of great jobs waiting to be done by people who have the skills from high school or community college... <applause> ... or apprenticeship programs. i'm going to do everything i can to lift up and honor hard work. when somebody can make something, when somebody is a machinist or a tool and dye maker or a carpenter or even a computer coder, that may not at l require a four-year college education. and it's about e we honored l work in ama and made l work pay for everybody. <applause> but for people who want to go to college, we're going to make it easier. i want every public college and university to be tuition-free for families ma less than $125,000 a year... <applause> ... and debt-free for everybody else because this should be seen as an investment. and if you are struggling with student debt, we've got a plan to ease that burden, get the costs down, get the interest rates down, get it paid off much faster. you see, i rely believe that every single person should be able to go as far as you're willing to work for it and not have your dreams dashed while you're a child or a teenager or a young adult. elections are about the future, so let's lift up the young people of ama! <applause> and that includes let's dismantle the so-cled school-to-prison pipeline and replace it with a cradle-to-college pipeline. <applause> we have a lot of work to do. i've laid out a full agenda.  , my running mate, and i, we've written a book cled "stronger together." and in it it tells you everything we want to try to do. and i've got to tell you, i think it's important you know what we want to do. it shouldn't just be an election about words, it should be about plans and policies so that you can judge and say, what will help me? like, for example, on college, you can go to my website, .com, right now, .com/cculator and you can see how much money you and your family would save under my plan. and i want to be re specific. i want to rebuild confidence in what we can do together. it's not good for anybody that our democracy and our country are viewed so suspiciously, without confidence. that is how we govern ourselves, so we have to work together. but i can't do any of this if you don't vote. <applause> now, so far, 1.6 million people in ohio have vo. <applause> but we've got work to do. so, please, you've got to get out, you've got to get to the polls, you've got to take people to the polls. nobody should sit this one out. you can go to iwillvote.com to find out what your polling place is. or you can volunteer to help us these next few days. you can text "join," j-o-i-n, to 47246. and i'm rely ready to get to work for you. this is about what we can do together. <applause> it's about the kind of future we can create and build. and it is an opportunity for l of us to be inves in a better, fairer, stronger ama. i want us to do this together. i rely do believe my slogan, "stronger together." <applause> so i  ohio will turn out in the biggest-recorded vote in history on tuesday. <applause> and we will together prove once and for l that love s hate! thank you l very much!<title=" rodham ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event in pierce, florida (sd/24)">
<date:"2016-09-30">
<:> hello! <applause> thank you! <applause>
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> thank you so much.
<audience: ! ! !>
<:> thank you.
<audience: ! ! ! (applause)>
<:> thank you so very much. wow. <applause> what -- what a wonderful welcome. it's great to be here in fort pierce in this beautiful theater. <applause> i love being in the sunshine state and... <applause> i rely want to recognize a few people. u.s. congresswoman lois frankel is here, as you saw. <applause> y perkins, a candidate for congress. <applause> kim , chair of the st. lucie county commission. <applause> larry lee, , state representative. <applause> everyone, l the elec officis, l of the students and young people, it is wonderful to be with you and i want to thank eileen for her introduction. we know how hard nurses like eileen work. <applause> and now that she is retired, she is volunteering for our campaign. this woman never quit and eileen, we are so glad you are on our team. <applause> i am grateful to l of the elec officis, l of the commissioners, the county commissioners,  county, st. lucie, for l you do for the community, but especily for l you did this summer to clean up the gae that pollu the water. <applause> that threatened wildlife and made life hard for loc residents and businesses. this is a serious, complica problem, isn't it?
<audience: yes.>
<:> for the entire treasure coast.
<audience: yes.>
<:> and it is a reminder, if we needed it, how important good leadership is. <applause> so i thank l the leaders for their commitment. now, there are 39 days between now and november 8th.<applause>
<:> just 39 days left in the most important election in our lifees. we have to make every single day count. we have to get more people registered to vote, get more people commit to turn out to vote, we have to drive home the stakes in this election, stronger family, safer communities, an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. <applause> and underneath l of the rhetoric and the coverage and the back and forth, this campaign rely comes down to two questions: what kind of future do we want for ourselves, our kids, and our gkids? and how do we make it a reity? now, as i said the other night. how many of you saw the debate? <applause>
<audience: ! ! ! (applause)>
<:> well, as i said, i now have two gchildren, and no offense, anybody, the two most wonderful, amazing, extraordinary little girl and little boy. and so i think a lot about the future. and you may have noticed that my opponent and i have different views -- about, well, nearly everything when it gets right down to it. not just about what makes ama great, because i think ama ready is great. <applause> but about what we should do to make it even greater. and about that basic question of how progress happens at l. my opponent believes in what i cl a strongman approach. he stood on that stage at his convention and described a less, broken nation. i'm sorry, i'm loo at you, i don't see that. <applause> that in no way resembles the strong, vibrant ama i know. and -- and here is what he said. he said, i one can fix it. <booing> i one? well, we've learned that that's his way. one person getting supreme power and exercising it ruthlessly. that is why he admires dictators like   so much. but that is now how change happens in ama. it is never just one person, not even someone as powerful as the president. every good thing our country has ever achieved has ways happened because people have worked together to make it a reity. <applause> not just the wethy or the powerful: l of us. we see that every day across ama and i bet many of you have been part of it. maybe you've taught kids to read. right? or cleaned up your loc park. or the beach. maybe you've organized a cancer wk or you've run a food drive. whatever it is, chances are you have done something to serve your community. and by extension, your country. how many of you, just think back over your lives. how many of you have performed some kind of service of some sort for your community, for other people?<applause>
<:> the reason i know you have is because tens and tens of millions of amans do some kind of volunteering in your hometowns every single year. it is one of the best things about the aman people. we are doers.
<audience: we are doers (ph).>
<:> you know, we don't just shrug our shoulders when we see something that needs fixing. we get resigned or apathetic or blame other people and turn on each to find scapegoats. we roll up our sleeves. we get to work to try to make things better in our neighborhood, our community, our city, our state, and our country. that has been our story, the aman story, since the beginning of our nation and it is still going strong today. now for many amans, including a lot of you here, serving our country has included serving in our armed forces. <applause> people are starting to cl out their services. <laughter> there is no greater service or sacrifice and we are grateful to our men and women in uniform, to their families, and our veterans every single day. <applause> but what's so great is that nation service can take many different forms and it's something that i believe in so deeply that every stage of our lives gives us a chance, from grade school through gparenthood, to find a way to give back. we've got folks here today from amorps. <applause> which my husband crea back in 1993. <applause> and i will tell you, to this day, it is one of his proudest achievements because every day amorps members are there. they're building houses, responding to natur disasters, helping people with disabilities my jobs, find safe places to live. and next week on october 7th, amorps will celebrate a major milestone: their one millionth member. <applause> i will tell you -- i will tell you,  is rely exci about this and so am i. and by the way, amorps has one of the best swearing-in pledges i have ever heard. here is how it starts. "i will get things done for ama." isn't that great? <applause> i think we should make that a nation slogan.
<audience: yes!>
<:> now we so have folks here today from city year, which is part of amorps. <applause> and every day they're wor with students who are at risk of dropping out of school. they're tutoring and mentoring and running after school clubs, l to help young people rely discover how capable they are and to be empowered and to stay in school. i am rely grateful to them. we so have people here today from the peace corps, which represents the best of ama to the world. <applause> these corps volunteers are teaching english in kosovo <ph>, staffing heth centers in nicaragua, supporting farmers in nep, distributing maria nets in uganda.
<:> both as first lady and as secretary of state, i got to see the results of their work firsthand. they are ma the world a hethier, more prosperous and more peaceful place. now, maybe not l of you have been a part of one of these programs, but i know you serve in different ways. maybe you volunteer through your school, with your church or synagogue. maybe you find through faith-based organizations, as i did when i was a teenager, service opportunities, because for many amans service is part of our faith. my running mate,  , volunteered in honduras with the jesuits as a young man. and it changed his life. or maybe your whole family volunteers together.  and  and i, every holiday season, would work at a food bank back in arkansas. however you serve, it feels good, doesn't it? to be part of something bigger than ourselves. <applause> to take our e and labor and put it towards something good that can happen in our country and the world. and you know something very interesting? service makes us happier, it makes us hethier and there are studies proving that. it's not just how we feel. they've actuly followed people. it can so help us find our next job or our true cling in life. it's a smart way to use our greatest asset, our people. and service does something important for us as a society. too often we amans can become separa from each other. and i think a lot of people are feeling this way during this election. it's easy to surround ourselves with only those who think like us, tk like us, look like us, read the e news as us. that's understandable to an extent. but it comes with a cost, because it magnifies our differences, which then makes it harder to put those differences aside when our community or country needs us. there aren't many places where people of l ages, l races, l backgrounds, l beliefs come together in common cause, but service is one of them. and that's one of the reasons i think it's so vuable. because in addition to the good work it does, it helps us reconnect with each other, to feel more a part of our shared aman life. i believe one of the jobs of the president is to encourage more service, to help more amans answer president kennedy's cl. you know it. "ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country." <applause> but you know somees it's hard to figure out, how do you make a difference, especily with everything else going on in our lives. and too often volunteering becomes something only people with lots of e and financi security can do. but that's not how it should be. everyone should be able to contribute. so what if we, as a country, made it easier for everybody to do that? for everybody to give back. what if we crea more service opportunities for amans of l ages, inves in programs that work, and encouraged entrepreneurs to add a soci component to their businesses? what if we strengthen the culture of service in ama ... <applause> ... so it wasn't just something we did one day a year, but it became a regular part of our lives? i think that would reflect our vues and tap into something so great about ama.
<:> i tk a lot about how ama is an exception nation. we're not exception just because of the size of our military or the size of our economy. we're exception because of the generosity and ingenuity of our people. <applause> way back -- nearly 200 years ago, a frenchman came to the uni states. his name was exis de tocqueville. he traveled around. he was trying to figure out, what is this new place cled ama? they fought a revolution. what are they doing? who are they? and he saw how we set up our government and we had three branches and everything that our founders rely put into place. but the thing that made the biggest impression on him was our spirit of volunteerism that made democracy as diverse and ambitious as ours possible. if i am elec president this fl, i want to build on that strength by ma a major push in support of more nation service. <applause> so here is what i plan to do. first, let's triple amorps. <applause> that was the go of my friend and the great senator  kennedy. it was laid out in a law named in his honor, the edward m. kennedy service ama act. it's finly e we get it done. every year there are hundreds of thousands of more applications for amorps than there are spots in the program. so if we grow the program from 75,000 annu members to 250,000, we're going to give more people who ready want to serve the chance to do so. and then i want to double the college scholarships that amorps members earn through their service! <applause> and i want to find ways for more students to get college credit for service. <applause> because i know too many ten, commit young people pass up on serving with amorps because with their student loan, they can't afford it.
<audience: that's right.>
<:> so let's lighten that burden. if you do nation service, we will began a program to forgive your loans because you are giving back to your country. <applause> and let's keep wor for the ulate go of ma it possible for any aman to serve full-e if they want to. now second, let's grow the peace corps. <applause> since president kennedy launched it 55 years ago, it's given nearly a quarter of a million amans the experience of a lifee and it has fostered friendships and cooperation between amans and people in more than 100 nations. we've got to do more of that in the world today. we need more amans of l ages around the world showing our vues, serving people. so let's make it possible for more amans to be a part of this extraordinary program.<applause>
<:> third, let's expand service opportunities for people of l ages, right? now, let's be fair, the younger generation is way ahead on this. i've tked to so many young people who are deeply thoughtful about how your lives impact others and the world. service isn't just something to do to check a box before graduation. it rely is woven into your lives. and many who are just getting star in your careers say that having a positive soci impact is more important to you than getting a job that yes, pay a sary but doesn't give you any meaning or purpose in your lives. <applause> and i love the fact that as you do service, you come up with new ways of giving back and find a path into charities and non-profit organizations and other ways to serve. that's a sign of true commitment. i've so been impressed by how many young entrepreneurs tell me that they're building a soci component into their businesses. whether it is dedicating a portion of their profits to a charity, giving employees e off to volunteer or adopting a school or community center as a pro bono project for the whole company. that's why my plan to help you refinance and pay back your student loans includes loan forgiveness if you launch a soci enterprise or start a business in an underserved community. <applause> we should make it easier for young innovators to follow their dreams while honoring their vues and giving back. now, i so want to get older amans more involved. service isn't something only students and young people do. i know that. so i intend to make sure that 10 percent of amorps slots go to amans over the age of 55. <applause> let's give people an encore opportunity after they've ended their form career so they can apply a lifee of knowledge and experience toward a stronger community. and finly, i want to create a new means for people to serve in serious, meaningful ways without a full-e commitment. you know, amorps is a full-e commitment. the peace corps is a full-e commitment. the armed forces are a full-e commitment. but the armed forces has another model; the reserves. right? it gives people the chance to make a high-impact contribution while still building careers and pursuing their dreams in other ways. so let's do something like that in the civilian space. let's cl it the nation service reserve. <applause> and here's the idea. if you join the nation service reserve, you will receive some basic training just like you would in the military reserves. and then when your city or state needs you, you'll get the cl. say a natur disaster strikes and the red cross needs l hands on deck or maybe like the crisis in flint and clean water has to be distribu every day to a lot of families or maybe your city launches a major public heth campaign to reduce drug abuse or promote ment heth. you will then be sent into action.
<:> now, some of these assignments may be just for a few days a month. some might be longer term. but they will directly address a vit need in your own community. and what are the other advantages? because you can help meet that need while still being a full-e student, having a job, ta care of your family. you won't have to make service your only priority. our go is 5 million people spread across l 50 states and... <applause> we will have an open door the people of l ages, but we want to put a speci focus on people under 30 who've said again and again they want to have a bigger impact in their communities, but they cannot leave their jobs, understandably. we'll work with governors and mayors, s and s, because i want this to be a true bipartisan public-private partnership. <applause> i so want to include businesses, colleges, and universities who have unique resources to offer. and because we want workers and students to know that as a they make this contribution, their schools and their employers will have their backs. i rely think a nation service reserve could make a difference for cities and states. there's so much work to be done and so many people who want to help do it. so let's bridge that divide, get people wor together in ways that can help communities. now, i do not think you will hear anything about this from my opponent. <laughter> and you know what? i think that is a shame, because nation service has ways been a bipartisan go. <applause> of course, president kennedy star the peace corps. and my husband star ama corps, but president nixon signed the domestic volunteer service act, president  h.w.  crea the white house office of nation service, and both president  w.  and president  have been huge champions of service. this should be something that we l can get behind and -- when you listen to what is being said in this campaign, it can be discouraging, right?
<audience: yeah!>
<:> it can seem hard to find any common ground. so that makes it even more important that we come together wherever and whenever we can. now i am well aware that candidates do not usuly focus on nation service in the fin stretch of a hotly fought presidenti election. some might say, well, hey, my gosh, you've only got 39 days to go, why aren't you just out there, you know, beating up on your opponent and doing everything to get the vote out and l the rest of it? well, i will do that, but... <laughter> <applause> i've been thin about this a long e and i did not want this campaign to end without t about it because it means a lot to m. i'm trying to end the campaign focusing on issues that are rely close to my heart. and this is one of them. <applause>
<audience: we love you, .>
<:> thank you. <applause> you know, for me, service is rely l about fulfilling the instruction of my methodist faith and you can see part of -- the creed i like to follow behind me.
<:> do l the good you can, in l the ways you can, in l the places you can, at l the es you can, to l the people you can, as long as ever you can. <applause> now, i've carried those words with me ever since i heard them as a little girl and it's an idea that rely got into my head and my heart. but you know what's kept me going are the people that i've met. in a country founded on liberty and equity, i can't think of a more important notion than every one of us is vuable. we l deserve respect. we l should listen to each other. we l can make our mark on the world. <applause> and when we come together in common purpose, we can do so much more than we can ever do on our own. that's why stronger together is more than a slogan. it's a course of action. <applause> so here's what i want to do. i want you to hear me pledge that this will be a vit aspect of my presidency. and i want you to help me bring our nation together, to solve our problems, strengthen our communities, to join with people across ama who care about service because it speaks to both what is great and good about the uni states. you know, ama is great because we are good. <applause> so there are lots of examples. we're gonna be putting examples up on my website of people who have served and who are inspirations. but i want everybody here to know that it can be done. we can do more and we can provide the opportunities to enlist more people. there are so many examples in this community and communities across ama. thirty-nine days left. this is the choice; do we lift each other up or do we tear each other down? <applause> do we listen and respect each other or do we scapegoat, point fingers and insult each other? well, i tell you what side i'm gonna be on. and with your help, we're going to demonstrate on november 8th what kind of country we rely are. thank you and god bless you.<title="former secretary of state  ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks at a campaign event">
<date:"2016-09-06">
<:> i know i'm only the second most exciting thing that's happened here in the last few days. <laughter> your big win to open your footbl season, got... <applause> got some attention. but i am ways happy to be at a university that is doing such a superb job in preparing the next generation of students. i had the great privilege of spea to your president, dr. genshaft. thank you. <applause> and i will tk in a minute about some of what i've learned about usf and why i think a lot of what you do here is a model for what we need to do in higher education. but for me, it's exciting to be here with so many friends. i want to start by than <inaudible> who just introduced me, air force reservist, former commander of the 927th aircraft maintenance squadron, a woman who has served her country with honor and distinction. i would be proud to be her commander-in-chief. <applause> i want to thank your extraordinary mayor, bob buckhorn. <applause> bob is an example of the kind of leader who gets things done by bringing people together, setting big gos and wor to achieve them. that's exactly what i want to do as president, and i look forward to wor with bob and the people of this great city and region. that includes a longe friend of mine, state senator arthenia joyner. <applause> i have known arthenia long before she was in elec office, but she's ways been an activist, ways trying to make things better for people. i've known her for -- oh, i hate to admit it -- 25 years. <laughter> and i am so grateful she is my friend. this is the countdown to one of the most important elections in our lifees. no matter what your age, this is going to determine so much about your futures, the futures of our children and gchildren. the stakes could not be higher.
<:> everyone knows what an important state florida is, and it's not just because its ways a hard-fought state, it's because florida shows l of the excitement, the dynamism, the opportunities, as well as the chlenges and problems that we have to face together. so we have 62 days -- 62 days to make the case. and i can't do it without you. and i'm here... <applause> i'm here to lay out my case one more e and to ask for your help, because every single vote counts. our campaign set a go in july, we launched a drive to register three million amans to vote this election. we have hos thousands of events across the country, including right here in florida. and today, i'm as every one of you to give us some of your precious e to be part of this campaign. and i'm going to run through some of the reasons why every single person here has a re stake in ma sure our country heads into the future with confidence and opism, that we truly are stronger together, because that's what will determine whether we have the economy that produces more good jobs with rising incomes, whether we have an education system that prepares our young people for the jobs of the future, whether college is affordable, whether student debt can be paid back, whether our heth care system works, whether we lead the world with strength and steadiness, wor with lies and partners to make sure that we move toward peace and prosperity. there is an exciting, bold agenda before us, but it cannot be done by any one person. it must be done by l of us, and that is something that   does not understand. <applause> among the many troubling things that were said at his convention -- and honestly, i somees didn't recognize what country they were t about. it was so dire, so dark, so divisive, so dangerous. but among the things he said was, "i one can fix it." <booing> think of who that leaves out. our men and women in uniform, troops on the front line, people like mary who put on the uniform of the air force to serve our country. think about the police and firefighters who rushed toward danger, think about those brave police officers and emergency responders in orlando when the pulse nightclub was attacked. <applause> think about l the teachers, the educators, the professors, the staff who work to give young people a much better chance in the race of life. think about l the hard wor people who can't build a house by themselves, can't erect one of  's skyscrapers by themselves. think of l the sml businesses that take a big chance. my dad was a sml business man; i know what a chance it is. he couldn't do it one; he needed customers, he needed suppliers, he needed workers. amans don't say, i one can fix it. we say, we'll fix it together; just watch us. nobody -- nobody can solve problems better than we can.<applause>
<:> and i want to be a president for l amans, not some amans; s, s, independents, every single aman. <applause> i want to be a president for those who vote for me and those who vote against me because i want to bring our country together. <applause> i'm very proud that   and i are running a campaign of issues, not insults. <applause> because i believe anybody who is as for your vote for the most important job not just in the country but in the world should tell you what they plan to do. i do have this -- i guess it's an old- fashioned idea. if you're going to ask people for their vote, they ought to have some idea what they're voting for. and i don't think it's enough to say oh, i'll tell you later. <laughter> i think it's important to lay it out and to tell you how it's going to be paid for. and that's why, starting today and especily for young people but rely for everybody, we are putting out a book. it's cled, "stronger together." and in it... <applause> it shows this is more than a slogan for the campaign. this is a blueprint for ama's future. <applause> among the things that we tk about is the core of our agenda. as laid out in this book, it is building an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. <applause> we're going to make the biggest investment in new jobs since world war ii. <applause> infrastructure jobs, like those here at the port. our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports, they need work and there are millions of jobs to be done. <applause> and in addition to what you can see, what about our water systems, our sewer systems? we need a new, modern electric grid to be able to take in clean, renewable energy that can then move us toward that future we see. <applause> i have a plan to instl a hf a ion solar panels by the end of my first term. <applause> and enough clean energy to power every home in ama by the end of my second term. <applause> and i want young people especily to be part of this, to be in science, technology, engineering, manufacturing, creating this future that will determine the quity of your lives and the competitiveness of our economy. we so have to finish extending broadband access to every place in ama. <applause> right now, 70 percent of our teachers say that they assign homework to their students starting in elementary school. they require the kids to learn how to use the internet, i think that's great. we want to have an internet-savvy population. but here's the problem. five million homes where little kids live, where high school kids live don't have the internet. what does that mean? that means they're ready behind. it's so unfair. we're going to make this economy grow but we're so going to make it fair. we're going to have more advanced manufacturing jobs.
<:> i think we made a mistake years ago, when we elimina what used to be cled vocation education. <applause> we've got to return technic education to our high schools, our community colleges. there are right now more than a million jobs that can be filled by people who are machinists, computer designers, tool and die makers. but for whatever reason, they haven't been given the chance to get that training. and maybe they've been told, "you know what? the only future is to go to a great university like usf." well, that is true for a lot of people, but it's not true for everybody. and we need to make the hard work that builds ama the kind of great work with respect and purpose that is going to attract a new generation. <applause> that's why you'll read what i want to do in here. we're going to try to make community college free. we're so going to have apprenticeship programs. <audio gap>
<:> i'm going to give a tax credit to any company that is willing to pay a young person while that young <inaudible> parents made. it's e for us to step up and build ama's future. and let's make it fair while we do that. that's why i've said we're going to emphasis the importance of sml businesses. right now, sml businesses are having a tough e in florida and across ama getting access to credit, right? and getting the kinds of regulations and overlapping expectations and standards that don't rely make sense. i want to make it clean and clear. and i particularly want young people with an idea for a sml business to feel that they can do it. so i have proposed a moratorium for three years on student debt, so you can actuly get a business off the ground, get it star, make your future. <applause> i so believe we should raise the nation minimum wage. anybody wor full e should not be living in poverty. <applause> and finly, let's guarantee equ pay for women's work, which will raise family income. <applause> anyone who's willing to work hard should have enough money to raise a family. did anybody of you watch any of the  convention? <applause> well, i don't know if you saw these two young people, 17-years- old from kansas. young man, young woman. went to the e high school, about to be seniors, get a summer job wor in a pizza restaurant in their home town, they're pretty exci. i remember when i had what i thought of as my first re job. not baby sitting, not you know, just kind of knoc around, but a re job where i had to actuly show up someplace and get a paycheck. that was pretty exciting. so a young man, young woman were at our convention, here's the story they told. they were t together one day after work, they'd known each other. and the young woman said, "you know, i'm exci, because i think i'm actuly going to be able to save some money for college ma $8 an hour." and her friend, the young man looked at her and he goes, "i'm ma $8.15 an hour." and the young woman said, "well, you didn't have any experience before this job doing this, did you?" he said, "no, you know i didn't." he <sic> said, "well, what do you think happened?" the young man said, "oh, it must be a mistake." so they together, and i give the young man a lot of credit -- good guy, right?<applause>
<:> they go to tell the manager that there's been a mistake. they're doing exactly the e job. he's ma $0.15 more an hour. what happens? the manager fired them both. <booing> and you know what? that's leg. if you find out about somebody else's sary even if you're doing exactly the e job?, you can be retia against, including being fired in most places. so, when i say let's have equ pay, and some people i see loo quizzic at me, they say well, of course you've got to have equ pay. well, yeah, if you're in the military and the pay sce is set or you're in the government and it's set or you're under a union contract and it's set. but if you're in the vast majority of jobs in ama, you have no idea whether you're being paid fairly. so, we can not let that continue. that's wrong in ama. if you're doing the job, you deserve to get the pay. <applause> and so how are we going to fund this? well, i'll tell you. we're going where the money is. we're going to the people who've made the money in the last 15 years. we're going to the top one-tenth percent; the millionaires, the ionaires. they're going to have to start paying for supporting our military, supporting our education system, supporting our heth care system. <applause> there could not be a bigger contrast between what i've proposed when it comes to taxes and what   has proposed. he actuly has proposed giving trillions -- and i mean that with a t -- trillions in tax cuts to big corporations, millionaires, ionaires and wl street money managers. <booing> that would not only explode our nation debt, it would lead to massive cuts in education and heth care. and many of his proposs would rely efit his own family but do nothing for the remaining 99-plus percent of amans. and in fact, independent anysts have said this. they've looked at our plans -- he doesn't have much in the way of plans but they've looked at what he has said -- and they've concluded, if we did what  is recommending, we would lose 3.5 million jobs in four years. if we do what i'm recommending, we stand to gain over 10 million jobs in the next four years. <applause> and among the things that i want to do is make sure we have an education system from early childhood through adulthood. and that means i want univers pre-k, i want to help more kids get a better start so that when they get to kindergarten and first grade, they're ready to learn. i want to work with our teachers and educators, i respect teachers and educators, and i want to give them the support they need to do the job we ask. <applause> and i want to support universities like this one. now, here's one of the reasons why. fifty thousand students, 40 percent on pell grants. a lot of people would never have gotten an education if it weren't for the feder pell grant program. right? <applause> but here's what's most impressive. a lot of schools have a lot of pell grants. this university graduates l categories of students at the e rate. if you're a pell grant student, a non-pell grant student, if you're white, african-aman, latina, a latino, asian, everybody graduates at the e rate.
<:> and why that happens is because this university makes a particular commitment to every student and moves as quickly as possible to help kids who maybe are first generation college students, right? <applause> i -- you know, i've got to tell you, when i got to college -- now, my father went to college on a footbl scholarship. i knew i wasn't going to college on a footbl scholarship. <laughter> my mother had a rely difficult childhood; she never got to go to college. so my dad couldn't rely tell me much about going to college because he basicly paid -- played footbl for four years and loved it. my mom couldn't tell me. so when i got to college, i felt so out of place. i was so nervous. there used to be something way back in the dark ages cled collect phone cls. <laughter> where you would cl collect, which meant that your parents had to pay for it, and you just wai to see whether they'd accept it. so i cled home and i said i can't -- i can't do this, it's too hard, everybody here is smarter than i am. they're better prepared than i am, i want to come home. and my father, who didn't want me to go so far away to school anyway, he said, "come home." <laughter> and my mother said, "no, you have to stick it out and if you feel the e way at the end of the year then you can make a different decision." of course, my mother was right; i loved it within a month or two. but i know what it feels like to show up and wonder can you make it? are you good enough? are you smart enough? and thank goodness usf has people waiting to mentor and reassure and guide students. every single college and university needs to have that. and then we've got to make it affordable so kids don't have to leave because they no longer have the funding that they need. <applause> and i want to do more in my effort to make childcare affordable. no family should have to pay more than 10 percent of your income on childcare. and right now, you have a lot of states where it costs more for childcare than tuition at college and university. so i'm going to do -- i know you've got childcare here, but as i told the president, i want to do more to help you to make sure every student, parent has a safe place to bring their child while they're studying and wor and trying to get their education. and then we're going to help everybody with student debt. how many of you have student debt? <applause> we're going to help you pay it back and pay it off quickly. we're going to get the interest rates down, we're going to give you new ways of paying it. <applause> because right now, we have too may people laboring under student debt in a way that holds your own futures back. so we're going to lift that burden off of you and we're so going to make sure you can get quity, affordable heth care. every age you are, every place you are, we're going to get the costs down, premiums, co-pays, deductibles and especily prescription drug costs. <applause> and there are two other things we're going to take on because i've heard about this l across ama. we're going to take on helping more people with ment heth and addiction problems get the help you need.<applause>
<:> so i'm exci about what we can do, to create an economy and education and heth care system that works, and while we do it, we're going to be protecting the rights of amans, l amans. we have fought too hard, we have come too far. and that means civil rights and it means women's rights and gay rights and voter rights and workers rights and disability rights. <applause> and you know, i believe with l my heart because i've done this work my entire life. i was loo at the disability sign there. my first job out of law school was with the children's defense fund. i did a lot of interesting things, and one of them was to gather evidence about why so many kids with disabilities were out of school. there was no requirement that you went to school if you were blind, deaf, in a wheelchair, and we changed the law. the first nation in the world to do that and i am so proud of our country. <applause> so these rights are not for somebody else. we l know somebody. we l know a woman. we l know somebody in a raci or ethnic minority. we l know a worker or a voter. we l know a gay person and we l know somebody with a disability. these are our rights, and the kinds of things that you've been hearing from  , demeaning, defaming groups of amans, people who have every right to be respec by someone who wants to be president of the uni states and he stands there and mocks a reporter with a disability and he cls women pigs and he cls mexican immigrants rapists and crimins... <booing> and he demeans muslims and attacks a gold star family whose son died in action in iraq. that's not who we are. so yes, we have a lot of plans but we so have vues, my friends. and we're going to stand up for aman vues. <applause> our book so outlines how we're going to keep our country safe from l threats. we're going to work with our lies, not insult them. we're going to stand up to our adversaries, not cozy up to them. we're going to have re plans, not claims and secret plans. this november, the aman people have a big choice to make when it comes to nation security. on the one hand, we have  , who has cled the aman military a disaster. <booing> who disrespects our military leaders by saying, and i quote, "i know more about isis than the geners do." his companies -- and listen to this because i know there are a lot of veterans and a lot of you know active duty people based here in tampa. his companies --  companies have fired veterans because they had to take e off to fulfill their military commitments.<booing>
<:> and we l saw him disparage the khans, a gold star family who lost their son in a car bomb explosion in iraq as he ran toward it to prevent the loss of life of people in his unit and saving hundreds of his fellow soldiers. and when asked why he would insult a gold star family, he sugges that his sacrifices are somehow comparable to theirs because he said, and again, i quote... <audio gap>
<:> we're going to bolster our defenses, including with an intelligence surge, to protect us and our lies. we will do whatever is necessary for as long as it takes to bring isis to justice and end their reign of terror once and for l. <applause> and i will tell you this. i am a very patient person. i don't quit, i don't give up, i don't blink. this sunday will be the 15th anniversary of the attack of 9/11. i was a senator from new york. i knew people who were killed. i worked with families and the few survivors. i worked to get the heth care needed by our first responders and emergency workers who ran toward danger. <applause> i worked to make our country safer and to rebuild new york and the pentagon, but i ways, ways was determined to do anything i could to bring bin laden to justice. <applause> and thanks to the very patient, painsta work of the aman intelligence community, finly, when i was secretary of state, we were given the opportunity to evuate the best evidence we had seen in a long e and i was honored to be part of that sml group in the situation room advising president  as we went through the evidence over and over and over again, trying to decide was it credible enough, strong enough to take action. and if we did, what kind of action. would it be a missile strike? would it be a bombing? would it be an attack by speci forces? and when it came e to go around the table, these were l extremely experienced, thoughtful experts. we l gave our opinions. i was one who said i thought it was worth the risk and i was... <applause> and i was in that sml situation room on that day. you l know the story. some of you read the book, some of you have seen the movies, but there's one thing i want to tell you because it demonstrates again what our vues are as amans. remember,   has said he would order aman troops to torture, he would order aman troops to murder family members of terrorists. that's what he has said, heedless of the consequences that that would lead to in terms of putting amans l over the world at even greater risk. here's what happened that night in pakistan. this is not an often told part of the story. so i want to tell you, particularly the young people here, particularly active duty and military veterans like mary. if you saw any of the reenactment, you know that one of the helicopters clipped its tail as it was going into the courtyard on the wl.
<:> it disabled that helicopter. now, thankfully, every contingency had been thought through, and so we were prepared for that. the military was prepared. they could get another helicopter there to take out the ses who were going to have to blow up the disabled helicopter. after rushing into the compound, ta out the two body guards, ta out bin laden's adult son, ta out bin laden, they knew they had to get out of there. at any e, there could have been pakistani military wondering, what's going on? something's happening. this was a military garrisoned town. so e was rely precious. and here's what the ses did. before they blew that helicopter up, they took out l the women and children. family members of terrorists, including the worst terrorist of l. they took them out of the compound, around the back to safety before they blew that helicopter up. that,  , is what aman honor looks like. <applause> i want to mention just three other threats. one threat here right at home -- the epidemic of gun violence. and we have got to have comprehensive background checks, close the gun show loophole, close the online loophole and the ability of people on the terrorist watch list buying a gun in ama. this agenda i've just briefly outlined is suppor by a vast majority of amans and a vast majority of aman gun owners, and it's e we l said in one voice, hey, we can respect the second amendment, we can respect the right to own arms, but we don't want people who shouldn't have guns in the first place killing anybody else ever again. <applause> another threat to our country is climate change. 2015 was the hottest year on record, and the science is clear. it's re, it's ree havoc on communities across ama. last week's hurricane was another reminder of the devastation that extreme weather can cause, and i send my thoughts and prayers to everyone affec by hermine. but this is not the last one that's going to hit florida, given what's happening in the climate. nobody knows that better than folks right here in tampa and in the broader region. sea levels have been rising here about an inch per decade since the 1950s. at the rate we are going, by 2030, which is not that far away, $70 ion of coast property in this state will be flooding at high tide. and whenever our infrastructure is threatened, so too is our homeland security. the next president will have to work with communities like tampa's to prepare for future storms.
<:> when i'm in the ov office, i'm going to work with loc leaders to make smart investments in infrastructure to help protect regions from flooding and other effects of climate change. i'm going to continue to work on the internation and nation level to try to turn the clock back, to stabilize and reduce emissions even more, to try to gain more e. but we're going to have to begin wor immediately on mitigation and resilience and prevention as well. <applause> and what about  ? well, he doesn't even believe in climate change. he says it's a hoax inven by the chinese. and he says, quote, "you can't get hurt with extreme weather." now, this is the e guy who at one of his golf courses in some coast place has demanded that a seawl be built to protect his golf course from rising tides. so it's l fine if it affects , but if affects the rest of nity he could care less. if it affects people who lose their homes or their businesses that took a lifee to build, doesn't matter to him. when it comes to protecting our country against natur disasters and the threat of climate change, once again   is totly unfit and unquified to be our president. <applause> and let's not forget the next president so has to keep our country safe from public heth crises like zika. it's painfully obvious we can't rely on the  congress or  governors to fund an adequate response. <applause> they can't help themselves from playing games, even when lives are on the line. i cl on l s to put people before politics and finly vote in favor of a clean funding  to fight zika right here in florida. <applause> but the failure of the s in congress, including your  senator, means that we can't ways count on them, can we? so last month, i announced that as president i will create a public heth rapid response fund to be available when emergencies occur, to have a consistent budget to better enable government agencies at l levels to quickly respond to major public heth crises and pandemics.
<:> this will complement our efforts to prepare our country to de with those chlenges and because of climate change, we're going to have more of them. because of mobility around the world, you can get on a plane in africa and bring ebola to the uni states. you could be a mosquito in brazil and make your way to florida. we've got to be better prepared. it's ways better to invest a penny in the front-end than to have to pay many dollars after the crisis has ready occurred. <applause> that's why it is e that when we tk about protecting public heth to put politics aside and put our people's needs first. now, i'm exci about doing l of this with you, for you, on your behf, but i can't do it without you. and here's what i'm as. the deadline to register voters is october 11th. if any of you are not registered or you're not sure you are registered or you're a student and you're registered somewhere else but it would be more convenient to vote here, you have until october 11th. so please, learn how to register. you can go to iwillvote.com and learn how to do that. you can go to my website, .com and learn how to do that. we are so building volunteer teams so you can get involved by going to .com or text "join," j-o-i-n, to 47246, or you can sign up here today. are there people with clipboards somewhere around here on the way out i guess? you can sign up here today to have a volunteer registration shift. and you can so apply if you're rely interes to our get out the vote fellowship program. we're going to organize speci groups to get people to the polls and we need you. this state has so much promise and i want to be the best president that you could possibly have in florida. i want to work on l of these issues, everything that's in this blueprint that we have published. and i want particularly to give the young people of this university, this state, this country the best shot you can have to be part of the aman dream however you define that. many of us... <applause> many of us who came before know that there were barriers in the way. when i was a young woman, there were schools i couldn't go to, jobs i couldn't get, scholarships i wasn't eligible for just because i was a woman. and a lot of those barriers have been knocked down. for every african aman, latino, asian aman, native aman, gay aman, you know that barriers have been knocked down. but they're not l down. and we've got to make sure they're l gone and that no demagogue can ever bring them back and can ever exploit the fears and insecurities of the aman people. <applause> so please vote this year like your future depends on it, because it does. and if you give me the great honor of serving as your president, i will get up every single day in that white house and i will work my heart out for those better jobs, better education opportunities, better heth care with quity and affordability, protecting our rights, protecting our country, unifying ama.
<:> because we need to be the uni states, not the divided states of ama. <applause> and yes, remember, as that sign over there says, i believe this too, love s hate. let's have a future that proves that's true. thank you l, god bless you.<title=" ,  presidenti candidate, delivers remarks following election results, new york city">
<date:"2016-11-09">
<: my wife, anne, and i are so proud of  . (applause) i'm proud of   because she has been and is a great history maker in every thing that she has done as a civil rights lawyer and first lady of arkansas and first lady of this country and senator and secretary of state.>
<: she has made history. in a nation that is good at so many things, but that has made it uniquely difficult for women to be elec to feder office, she became the first major party nominee as a woman to be president and last night won the popular vote of amans for the president. (applause) that is an amazing accomplishment. it is an amazing accomplishment. i'm proud of   because in the words of langston hughes, she's "held fast to dreams." she was inspired at a young age to an epiphany that if families and children do well, that's the best barometer of whether society does well. in everything she's done, she's focused on that. we know she would have made history as a president in one sense, but we never have had a president who's made their whole career about the empowerment of families and children. and i was as exci about that in the ov office as i was exci to have my friend  there and make history as the first woman president. i'm exci and proud of  because she has built such a wonderful team. there is a... (applause) there's a beautiful and kind of comic parable in the new testament about a vineyard owner who hires people to work and says i'm going to pay you this for a full day. then he hires people at noon, i'm going to pay you the e thing for the hf day. then he hires people one hours work, i'm going to pay you the e. and those who star earlier in the day said hold on, we don't like this, that you're treating everybody who came late just as well as you're treating us. i'm going to tell you something, here's what i've come to know so well about . the team that she has assembled over the years of people that are so deeply loy to her because she's so deeply loy to them is inspiring. but i've seen that e degree of loyty and compassion and sensitivity extended to the most recent folks who have joined the team, the folks who came to the vineyard with just one hour to go. her loyty and compassion of  and  to people, if you're with you you're with you. and that is just something so remarkable. and finly, i'm proud of  because she loves this country. (applause) nobody -- nobody had to wonder about  , whether she would accept an outcome of an election in our beautiful democracy. nobody had to ask that question. nobody had to doubt it. she knows our country for what it is. she knows the system that we have and its warts and blemishes. she's deeply in love with it and accepts it. she's been in battles before where if it didn't go her way she accep it, but then woke up the next day and battled again for the dreams that she's held fast to. and that love of country is something that i think is obvious to everybody, obvious to everyone. i want to thank   for as anne and i to join this wild ride. we -- about a week before she asked if i would be her running mate, anne and i went up to westchester and we sat down with  and  and with  and mark and with charlotte and aiden for about three hours of conversation to try to determine whether we would be the right people to be on the ticket. and when we got in the car to head back to the airport after the three hour discussion, i said to anne, "honey, i don't know whether we're going to be on this ticket or not, but i do know this, we're going to remember that three hours for the rest of our life." and now, we've -- we'll remember 105 days that we've had with this fantastic couple of public servants and l of you for the rest of our life. i'll just say this.  and i know well the wisdom and the words of william faulkner. he said, "they kilt us but they ain't whupped us yet." (applause) "they kilt us but they ain't whupped us yet," because we know that the work remains. we know that the dreams of empowering families and children remain. and in that work, that important work that we have to do as a nation, it is so comforting even at a tough e to know that   is somebody until her very last breath is going to be battling for the vues that make this nation great and the vues that we care so deeply about.>
<: so now, please join me in welcoming secretary  rodham . (applause)>
<:> thank you. thank you l. thank you. <applause> thank you l very much. thank you. thank you. thank you so much. <applause> very rowdy group. thank you, my friends. thank you. thank you, thank you so very much for being here and i love you l, too. last night, i congratula   and offered to work with him on behf of our country. i  that he will be a successful president for l amans. this is not the outcome we wan or we worked so hard for and i'm sorry that we did not win this election for the vues we share and the vision we hold for our country. but i feel pride and gratitude for this wonderful campaign that we built together, this vast, diverse, creative, unruly, energized campaign. you represent the best of ama and being your candidate has been one of the greatest honors of my life. <applause> i know how disappoin you feel because i feel it too, and so do tens of millions of amans who inves their s and dreams in this effort. this is painful and it will be for a long e, but i want you to remember this. our campaign was never about one person or even one election, it was about the country we love and about building an ama that's ful, inclusive and big-hear. we have seen that our nation is more deeply divided than we thought. but i still believe in ama and i ways will. and if you do, then we must accept this result and then look to the future.   is going to be our president. we owe him an open mind and the chance to lead. our constitution democracy enshrines the peaceful transfer of power and we don't just respect that, we cherish it. it so enshrines other things; the rule of law, the principle that we are l equ in rights and dignity, freedom of worship and expression. we respect and cherish these vues too and we must defend them. <applause> now -- and let me add, our constitution democracy demands our participation, not just every four years but l the e. so let's do l we can to keep advancing the causes and vues we l hold dear; ma our economy work for everyone not just those at the top, protecting our country and protecting our planet and brea down l the barriers that hold any aman back from achieving their dreams.
<:> we've spent a year and a hf bringing together millions of people from every corner of our country to say with one voice that we believe that the aman dream is big enough for everyone -- for people of l races and religions, for men and women, for immigrants, for lgbt people, and people with disabilities. for everyone. <applause> so now, our responsibility as citizens is to keep doing our part to build that better, stronger, fairer ama we seek. and i know you will. i am so grateful to stand with l of you. i want to thank   and anne holton for being our partners on this journey. <applause> it has been a joy getting to know them better, and it gives me great  and comfort to know that  will remain on the front lines of our democracy representing virginia in the senate. <applause> to  and  , our country owes you an enormous debt of gratitude. <applause> we -- we thank you for your graceful, determined leadership that has meant so much to so many amans and people across the world. and to  and , mark, charlotte, aidan, our brothers and our entire family, my love for you means more than i can ever express. you crisscrossed this country on our behf and lif me up when i needed it most -- even four-month-old aidan who traveled with his mom. i will ways be grateful to the creative, ten, dedica men and women at our headquarters in brooklyn and across our country. <applause> you poured your hearts into this campaign. for some of you who are veterans, it was a campaign after you had done other campaigns. some of you, it was your first campaign. i want each of you to know that you were the best campaign anybody could have ever expec or wan. <applause> and to the millions of volunteers, community leaders, activists and union organizers who knocked on doors, tked to neighbors, pos on facebook, even in secret, private facebook sites... <laughter> <applause> ... i want everybody coming out from behind that and make sure your voices are heard going forward. <applause> to everyone who sent in contributions as sml at $5 and kept us going, thank you. thank you from l of us. and to the young people in particular, i  you will hear this. i have, as  said, spent my entire adult life fighting for what i believe in. i've had successes and i've had setbacks. somees, rely painful ones. many of you are at the beginning of your profession public and politic careers. you will have successes and setbacks, too. this loss hurts, but please never stop believing that fighting for what's right is worth it.<applause>
<:> it is -- it is worth it. <applause> and so we need -- we need you to keep up these fights now and for the rest of your lives. and to l the women, and especily the young women, who put their faith in this campaign and in me, i want you to know that nothing has made me prouder than to be your champion. <applause> now, i -- i know -- i know we have still not shattered that highest and hardest glass ceiling, but some day someone will and fully sooner than we might think right now. <applause> and -- and to l the little girls who are watching this, never doubt that you are vuable and powerful and deserving of every chance and opportunity in the world to pursue and achieve your own dreams. finly... <applause> finly, i am so grateful for our country and for l it has given to me. i count my blessings every single day that i am an aman. and i still believe as deeply as i ever have that if we stand together and work together with respect for our differences, strength in our convictions and love for this nation, our best days are still ahead of us. <applause> because, you know -- you know, i believe we are stronger together and we will go forward together. and you should never, ever regret fighting for that. you know, scripture tells us, "let us not grow weary in doing good, for in due season, we shl reap if we do not lose heart." so my friends, let us have faith in each other, let us not grow weary, let us not lose heart, for there are more seasons to come. and there is more work to do. i am incredibly honored and grateful to have had this chance to represent l of you in this consequenti election. may god bless you and may god bless the uni states of ama.